>>NCT00637442
Examination of the correlation between the cerebral bloodflow and the clinical change under treatment with Reminyl retard and the prediction of clinical change by measuring the cerebral bloodflow in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01608217
This is a phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, multicentre study to the efficacy and safety of low dose delta-9-THC in behavioural disturbances and pain in patients with mild to severe dementia, when added to an analgesic treatment with acetaminophen.
 It is hypothesized that Namisol will lead to more behavioural disturbances than placebo, when added to an analgesic treatment with acetaminophen and as measured by a change in Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) score, after a three week treatment period.
 It is expected that this will be due, primarily, to psychoactive effects of Namisol and secondary to a reduction in pain sensation (as measured with VRS and PACSLAC-D). It is expected that a reduction in NPS will positively affect quality of life and lead to better functioning in daily living. This is a phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group, multicentre study to the efficacy and safety of low dose delta-9-THC in behavioural disturbances and pain in patients with mild to severe dementia, when added to an analgesic treatment with acetaminophen.
 It is hypothesized that Namisol will lead to more behavioural disturbances than placebo, when added to an analgesic treatment with acetaminophen and as measured by a change in Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) score, after a three week treatment period.
 It is expected that this will be due, primarily, to psychoactive effects of Namisol and secondary to a reduction in pain sensation (as measured with VRS and PACSLAC-D). It is expected that a reduction in NPS will positively affect quality of life and lead to better functioning in daily living.

>>NCT01849042
This study will evaluate the pharmacological efficacy on language capability and compliance with combination of new Ebixa oral pump and donepezil compared to donepezil only in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. Primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of memantine on language capability in moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease patients who are taking stable donepezil treatment.Secondary objectives are to evaluate the efficacy of maintain on cognitive function and disease progression with K-MMSE, NPI, ROSA and SIB-short form in probable AD.

>>NCT02612688
This is a pragmatic cluster-randomized control trial (RCT) of an Advance Care Planning (ACP) Video Program for nursing home (NH) patients >= 65 years old who are cared for in 360 NH facilities (intervention arm n=119; control arm n=241) within two NH health care systems: Genesis HealthCare and PruittHealth. The intervention NH facilities will implement the ACP Video Program, while the control NH facilities will follow their usual ACP procedures. The trial will evaluate the effectiveness of the ACP Video Program by comparing hospitalizations, advance directives and hospice use in the intervention vs. control NHs. This is a pragmatic cluster-randomized control trial (RCT) of an Advance Care Planning (ACP) Video Program for nursing home (NH) patients >= 65 years old who are cared for in 360 NH facilities (intervention arm n=119; control arm n=241) within two NH health care systems: Genesis HealthCare and PruittHealth. The intervention NH facilities will implement the ACP Video Program, while the control NH facilities will follow their usual ACP procedures. The trial will evaluate the effectiveness of the ACP Video Program by comparing hospitalizations, advance directives and hospice use in the intervention vs. control NHs.

>>NCT01024660
The purpose of this study is to determine if there is improvement or measurable change in cognition after only one month of treatment with donepezil when using a computerized test battery. The results at one month will be compared with the results at 3 months to evaluate this.

>>NCT01513967
This is a dual-centre, Phase I/IIa study, in healthy subjects and subjects with AD to investigate the safety, tolerability, cognitive and behavioural effects of RPh201. The study will be divided into three parts: A, B and C This is a dual-centre, Phase I/IIa study, in healthy subjects and subjects with AD to investigate the safety, tolerability, cognitive and behavioural effects of RPh201. The study will be divided into three parts: A, B and C.

>>NCT00626210
Modafinil, trade named Provigil, is a medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of narcolepsy, obstructive sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome and shift work sleep disorder. Each of these problems is characterized by difficulty sleeping at night and excessive daytime sleepiness. Modafinil is prescribed during the day to counteract this sleepiness. The idea behind this treatment is that sleepiness that leads to napping during the day prevents a patient from being tired or sleepy enough to get good sleep at night. This study is designed to determine if the medication can "reset" participants' sleep/wake rhythm to a more normal rhythm.

>>NCT01436552
Background: Dementias (Alzheimer's disease and related syndromes), in their sporadic form, have multifactorial origin. Several risk factors (RF) are currently recognized like the cardiovascular RF, some genes of susceptibility but the impact [1] of traumatic life events (TLE), considered as psychosocial RF (Persson & Skoog, 1996; Charles et al, 2006), [2] of anxiety and/or depression, [3] of the premorbid personality (Clment et al, 2003) with his coping strategies and [4] of the lifestyle (which results from the personality), for the moment are still underestimated. Dementia disease can be clinically preceded by a mild cognitive impairment (MCI) (Petersen et al, 1996) which is however potentially reversible.
 Purpose: Actually, there is no study concerning the rate of conversion from MCI to dementia according to the presence or not of TLE. The aim of this study is to assess association between TLE and conversion rate from MCI to dementia.
 Methods: Patients with MCI will be recruited in different memory clinics (Limoges and others) Primary outcome: Occurrence of dementia according to DSM-IV-TR criteria in MCI patients according to their cumulated score of TLE measured by EVVIE.
 Secondary outcomes: Occurrence of dementia in MCI patients according to various other psychopathological factors: anxiety, depression, apathy, personality features, alexithymia and resilience levels and life style.
 Study design: Epidemiologic cohort longitudinal and prospective multicenter study. Background: Dementias (Alzheimer's disease and related syndromes), in their sporadic form, have multifactorial origin. Several risk factors (RF) are currently recognized like the cardiovascular RF, some genes of susceptibility but the impact [1] of traumatic life events (TLE), considered as psychosocial RF (Persson & Skoog, 1996; Charles et al, 2006), [2] of anxiety and/or depression, [3] of the premorbid personality (Clment et al, 2003) with his coping strategies and [4] of the lifestyle (which results from the personality), for the moment are still underestimated. Dementia disease can be clinically preceded by a mild cognitive impairment (MCI) (Petersen et al, 1996) which is however potentially reversible.
 Purpose: Actually, there is no study concerning the rate of conversion from MCI to dementia according to the presence or not of TLE. The aim of this study is to assess association between TLE and conversion rate from MCI to dementia.
 Methods: Patients with MCI will be recruited in different memory clinics (Limoges and others) Primary outcome: Occurrence of dementia according to DSM-IV-TR criteria in MCI patients according to their cumulated score of TLE measured by EVVIE.
 Secondary outcomes: Occurrence of dementia in MCI patients according to various other psychopathological factors: anxiety, depression, apathy, personality features, alexithymia and resilience levels and life style.
 Study design: Epidemiologic cohort longitudinal and prospective multicenter study.

>>NCT01565356
This study will re-read 10-minute positron emission tomography (PET) scans acquired in previous clinical studies of AV-45 at 30 and 50 minutes after injection and compare the results.

>>NCT01993836
This study will examine the hypothesis that changes in the cognition (i.e. thinking and memory) after anesthesia and surgery are correlated with changes in markers of Alzheimers Disease in the fluid around the brain and spinal cord (i.e. cerebrospinal fluid or CSF), and/or changes in brain connectivity. The investigators will also examine whether different types of anesthesia have different effects on these CSF markers of Alzheimers disease or different effects on thinking and memory after anesthesia and surgery or differential effects on the correlation between cognitive changes and CSF marker changes.

>>NCT00277810
The purpose of the study is to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of 3 doses of lecozotan in combination with a cholinesterase inhibitor in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00105105
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of C-1073 (Mifepristone) on cognition in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) who are also taking an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (Aricept, Exelon or Reminyl). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of C-1073 (Mifepristone) on cognition in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) who are also taking an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (Aricept, Exelon or Reminyl).

>>NCT02386670
This 5-year randomized controlled trial will compare the efficacy of non-invasive brain stimulation (trans-cranial Direct Current Stimulation - tDCS) combined with cognitive remediation (CR) versus sham ("placebo") tDCS combined with sham ("placebo") CR in slowing down cognitive decline and preventing Alzheimer's Dementia in older persons with mild cognitive impairment or major depressive disorder with or without mild cognitive impairment. This 5-year randomized controlled trial will compare the efficacy of non-invasive brain stimulation (trans-cranial Direct Current Stimulation - tDCS) combined with cognitive remediation (CR) versus sham ("placebo") tDCS combined with sham ("placebo") CR in slowing down cognitive decline and preventing Alzheimer's Dementia in older persons with mild cognitive impairment or major depressive disorder with or without mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT01920672
Over 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia, a progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative condition, affecting also close to 15 million family caregivers (CG). Sleep efficiency in AD patients is severely impaired and complicated by frequent night awakenings and nocturnal restlessness. Untreated sleep disruption in AD patients is associated with increased rates of neuropsychiatric symptoms, daytime napping, 'sundowning' behaviors, cognitive and functional decline and morbidity and mortality. The added strain of sleep disruption is the primary reason family caregivers make the decision to institutionalize AD patients. The circadian abnormalities in the sleep-wake cycle commonly observed in AD patients occur more often in individuals with hypothalamic/ pituitary/adrenal (HPA) axis hyperactivity. HPA axis hyperactivity may influence diurnal sleep-wake activity by diminishing an AD patient's ability to respond to external zeitgebers which, in turn, can further propagate HPA axis dysfunction. Thus, interventions to normalize diurnal HPA axis patterns may be beneficial in treating sleep-wake disturbances. Nonpharmacologic treatments are the first line therapy in AD patients with sleep wake problems, given the ineffective and potentially harmful effects of pharmacologic agents. Current clinical sleep hygiene practices in institutional (e.g., nursing home) settings holds promise for reducing disruptive sleep by reestablishing circadian patterns in HPA functioning. These interventions include use of timed and planned activities during daylight hours and creating a relaxing environment in the evening. However little systematic work has been done to determine the efficacy of these interventions in the home setting (where most individuals with AD reside).
 We propose a pilot study to (a) characterize objective sleep parameters and behavioral symptoms of sleep-wake disturbance and biological indicators of diurnal HPA axis activity in a sample of community residing older adults with AD: (b) examine the effects of timed and planned activities on subjective and objective characteristics of sleep, behavioral symptoms and HPA status; and (c) evaluate measurement approaches in home-dwelling AD patients. Subjective (CG questionnaires) and objective (wrist actigraphy) characteristics of sleep and behavioral symptoms will be measured in fifty-four AD patients being cared for at home by a family. Patients and CG with then be randomized to receive an intervention of timed, planned activities (TPA) or attention control (AC) condition. We will also obtain diurnal measures of HPA activity including salivary cortisol and alpha amylase.

>>NCT02727699
This XanADu Phase II study in mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is to assess the safety, tolerability and efficacy of 35 mg twice daily Xanamem in subjects with mild dementia due to probable Alzheimer's Disease. Subjects will be randomised into either administering Xanamem or administering Placebo at a 1:1 ratio in a double-blinded fashion. This XanADu Phase II study in mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is to assess the safety, tolerability and efficacy of 35 mg twice daily Xanamem in subjects with mild dementia due to probable Alzheimer's Disease. Subjects will be randomised into either administering Xanamem or administering Placebo at a 1:1 ratio in a double-blinded fashion.

>>NCT01692977
The disruption of spatial orientation is considered the second most common cognitive symptom of dementia, affecting nearly all activities of daily living. Research in the field of environmental psychology has helped to highlight the influence of the environment on patients with Alzheimer's disease or related syndromes. With regard to spatial orientation, it has been shown that an environment can provide support for cognitive failures in subjects if that particular space is adapted. While numerous studies have focused on the architectural environment (hospital, housing facility), none have explored the ability of patients to orient themselves in a natural environment such as a garden. Yet, in recent years, such gardens, known as healing gardens, have emerged in housing and care facilities, providing genuine support for the care management of patients with Alzheimer-type dementia. Various works have been published outlining recommendations for their management. However, with regard to spatial orientation, none of the available research has explored the basic principles on which to rely on in order to organize the elements of outdoor spaces into itineraries that promote orientation, according to ZEISEL and TYSON (1999). In the absence of such data, these authors recommend relying on five elements, identified by Lynch in his landmark book "Image of the City" (1960), that people use to orient themselves and find their way. These are " paths ", " edges ", " districts ", " nodes " and " landmarks ". The hypothesis to verify is that patients with Alzheimer's disease do not rely on the same elements of the garden as non-Alzheimer's subjects in making orientation decisions and to mentally picture this environment.

>>NCT00592943
The specific aims of this study are 1) to document the Dopamine Transporter (DAT) receptor occupancy of armodafinil using positron emission tomography (PET) scanning with C-11 altropane as the ligand and 2) to document the increased intrasynaptic dopamine produced by armodafinil using PET scanning with C-11 raclopride as the ligand. We hypothesize that DAT occupancy will be low with armodafinil; less than the DAT occupancy produced by therapeutic doses of methylphenidate. We also hypothesize that increases in intrasynaptic dopamine will be relatively low with armodafinil. The specific aims of this study are 1) to document the Dopamine Transporter (DAT) receptor occupancy of armodafinil using positron emission tomography (PET) scanning with C-11 altropane as the ligand and 2) to document the increased intrasynaptic dopamine produced by armodafinil using PET scanning with C-11 raclopride as the ligand. We hypothesize that DAT occupancy will be low with armodafinil; less than the DAT occupancy produced by therapeutic doses of methylphenidate. We also hypothesize that increases in intrasynaptic dopamine will be relatively low with armodafinil.

>>NCT01295957
The effectiveness of reminiscence for dementia has been claimed as an effective tool but scientific validation and systematic assessment of this method is needed. Materials and Methods: A randomized controlled trial (RCT) was conducted to search whether a reminiscence program is associated with improvement of quality of life of demented long term care residents. The trial had three arms: interventional, comparison and control. The reminiscence program was modeled within a life-story approach, while comparison group received informal counseling to control for changes in quality of life resulting from social contacts. The Social Engagement Scale (SES) and Self-rated Quality of Life Index (SRQoL) were the outcome measures. The results were examined at baseline (T0), twelve weeks (T1) and 6 months (T2) after intervention. The sample had 135 subjects [intervention group (N=45), comparison group (N=45) and control group (N=45)]. The effectiveness of reminiscence for dementia has been claimed as an effective tool but scientific validation and systematic assessment of this method is needed. Materials and Methods: A randomized controlled trial (RCT) was conducted to search whether a reminiscence program is associated with improvement of quality of life of demented long term care residents. The trial had three arms: interventional, comparison and control. The reminiscence program was modeled within a life-story approach, while comparison group received informal counseling to control for changes in quality of life resulting from social contacts. The Social Engagement Scale (SES) and Self-rated Quality of Life Index (SRQoL) were the outcome measures. The results were examined at baseline (T0), twelve weeks (T1) and 6 months (T2) after intervention. The sample had 135 subjects [intervention group (N=45), comparison group (N=45) and control group (N=45)].

>>NCT01482351
The goal of the research is to determine the power and the feasibility of the study design and methods to inform a full-scale clinical trial that will determine whether treatment of obstructive sleep apnea in older adults with mild cognitive impairment delays cognitive decline and preserves everyday function. The goal of the research is to determine the power and the feasibility of the study design and methods to inform a full-scale clinical trial that will determine whether treatment of obstructive sleep apnea in older adults with mild cognitive impairment delays cognitive decline and preserves everyday function.

>>NCT02750306
This study aims to examine the safety and efficacy of suvorexant (MK-4305) to improve sleep in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The primary hypothesis for the study is that suvorexant is superior to placebo in improving insomnia as measured by change from baseline in polysomnography (PSG)-derived total sleep time (TST) at Week 4.

>>NCT01661673
This study is being conducted to determine the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and effects of EVP-0962 on cerebral spinal fluid Amyloid concentrations in healthy subjects and in subjects with mild cognitive impairment or early Alzheimer's disease. This study is being conducted to determine the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and effects of EVP-0962 on cerebral spinal fluid Amyloid concentrations in healthy subjects and in subjects with mild cognitive impairment or early Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00765115
To test that LY450139, a gamma-secretase inhibitor, will reduce the rate of newly synthesize Amyloid Beta by determining the amount of newly synthesized 13C6 leucine-labeled Amyloid Beta in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid from LY450139 treated subjects compared with placebo treated subjects.

>>NCT01023867
To compare the clinical efficacy of donepezil between patients with Alzheimer's disease and Mixed Dementia. To compare the clinical efficacy of donepezil between patients with Alzheimer's disease and Mixed Dementia.

>>NCT01183806
The purpose of this study is to determine whether a exercise program when combined with rivastigmine (Exelon patch) drug treatment compared with rivastigmine drug treatment alone would improve quality of life, ability to perform activities of daily living (ADL) and cognition in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 Hypothesis:.
 Ho: Rivastigmine drug treatment combined with exercise is not superior to rivastigmine drug treatment to improve quality of life of Alzheimer's disease patients.
 H1: Rivastigmine drug treatment combined with exercise is superior to rivastigmine drug treatment to improve quality of life of Alzheimer's disease patients, with an expectative of 15% of improvement in the quality of life scale measurement The purpose of this study is to determine whether a exercise program when combined with rivastigmine (Exelon patch) drug treatment compared with rivastigmine drug treatment alone would improve quality of life, ability to perform activities of daily living (ADL) and cognition in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 Hypothesis:.
 Ho: Rivastigmine drug treatment combined with exercise is not superior to rivastigmine drug treatment to improve quality of life of Alzheimer's disease patients.
 H1: Rivastigmine drug treatment combined with exercise is superior to rivastigmine drug treatment to improve quality of life of Alzheimer's disease patients, with an expectative of 15% of improvement in the quality of life scale measurement.

>>NCT00710684
The study is designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of SB-742457 when added to stable donepezil treatment in subjects with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02361424
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy on cognitive impairment and functioning of several doses of PXT00864 (new fixed combination of acamprosate and baclofen at low dose) in patients with mild Alzheimer Disease.

>>NCT00931073
This study will evaluate the potential for a drug-drug interaction of Dimebon with ketoconazole and omeprazole, potent inhibitors of the drug metabolizing enzymes CYP3A4 and CYP2C19, respectively.

>>NCT00103649
The purpose of this study is to assess xaliproden's potential capacity of slowing the deterioration of cognitive and global functions in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The patients participating in this study will take orally once daily xaliproden or placebo (inactive substance pill).

>>NCT00906191
The objective of this study is to investigate how quickly and to what extent the 14-Carbon labeled SAM-531 is absorbed into the bloodstream, converted and eliminated from the body after oral administration in healthy male subjects. As 14-Carbon labeled SAM-531 is radioactive, this enables the compound to be traced in blood, urine and feces.

>>NCT02074215
Recent studies have shown that aerobic exercises and dual-task training are effective in improving overall cognitive function in patients with cognitive impairment or dementia. However, the biological mechanisms are unknown in humans. It also remains unclear regarding whether carrying APOE4 genotype or not would influence the effects. Therefore, the three main purposes of this study are: (1) to investigate the effects of a 3-month aerobic exercises combined with dual-task training on memory and executive cognitive functions in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and in those with early Alzheimer's disease (AD); (2) to compare the differences in training effects between patients who carry APOE4 genotype and those who do not carry this genotype; and (3) to investigate the biological mechanisms of the exercise training effects on memory and executive cognitive function in these patients. The biological mechanisms of interest will include the blood A1-40 and A1-42 level, insulin, fasting glucose, cytokine, integrity of brain fiber tracts and cerebral blood flow.
 We will conduct a randomized controlled clinical trial. A total of 70 patients with MCI or AD will be recruited. The participants will be randomly assigned to the experimental group or the control group. Both groups will receive three 90-minute exercise sessions per week for 12 weeks. For the experimental group, the exercise program will include moderate intensity aerobic exercises and dual-task training; whereas for the control group, the training program will include gentle stretching exercises. Both groups will receive examinations on outcome variables, including blood A1-40 and A1-42 level, insulin, fasting glucose, cytokine,integrity of brain fiber tracts, cerebral blood flow, cognitive function and dual task performance at baseline, post-training and after a 3-month follow-up period. Differences on the aforementioned outcomes brought by the 12-week training programs will be compared between the experimental and control groups. Exercise effects between patients who carry APOE4 genotype and those who do not will also be examined.
 Results of this study will provide relevant clinical evidence for the effects of aerobic exercises combined with dual-task training on patients with MCI and mild AD; and will provide further understanding of the mechanisms mediating these effects. Recent studies have shown that aerobic exercises and dual-task training are effective in improving overall cognitive function in patients with cognitive impairment or dementia. However, the biological mechanisms are unknown in humans. It also remains unclear regarding whether carrying APOE4 genotype or not would influence the effects. Therefore, the three main purposes of this study are: (1) to investigate the effects of a 3-month aerobic exercises combined with dual-task training on memory and executive cognitive functions in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and in those with early Alzheimer's disease (AD); (2) to compare the differences in training effects between patients who carry APOE4 genotype and those who do not carry this genotype; and (3) to investigate the biological mechanisms of the exercise training effects on memory and executive cognitive function in these patients. The biological mechanisms of interest will include the blood A1-40 and A1-42 level, insulin, fasting glucose, cytokine, integrity of brain fiber tracts and cerebral blood flow.
 We will conduct a randomized controlled clinical trial. A total of 70 patients with MCI or AD will be recruited. The participants will be randomly assigned to the experimental group or the control group. Both groups will receive three 90-minute exercise sessions per week for 12 weeks. For the experimental group, the exercise program will include moderate intensity aerobic exercises and dual-task training; whereas for the control group, the training program will include gentle stretching exercises. Both groups will receive examinations on outcome variables, including blood A1-40 and A1-42 level, insulin, fasting glucose, cytokine,integrity of brain fiber tracts, cerebral blood flow, cognitive function and dual task performance at baseline, post-training and after a 3-month follow-up period. Differences on the aforementioned outcomes brought by the 12-week training programs will be compared between the experimental and control groups. Exercise effects between patients who carry APOE4 genotype and those who do not will also be examined.
 Results of this study will provide relevant clinical evidence for the effects of aerobic exercises combined with dual-task training on patients with MCI and mild AD; and will provide further understanding of the mechanisms mediating these effects.

>>NCT02541929
Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an essential omega-3 fish oil. DHA is critical to the structure and function of brain cells.
 DHA fish oil has been shown to be beneficial in cognition in several animal studies; however, this effect in human studies is not clear. It is not known how much dietary fish oil can get into the human brain. Thus, exploring fish oil delivery in human brains is critical for designing appropriate interventions. Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is an essential omega-3 fish oil. DHA is critical to the structure and function of brain cells.
 DHA fish oil has been shown to be beneficial in cognition in several animal studies; however, this effect in human studies is not clear. It is not known how much dietary fish oil can get into the human brain. Thus, exploring fish oil delivery in human brains is critical for designing appropriate interventions.

>>NCT00950430
This is a prospective, open label, non-therapeutic, diagnostic imaging study. The purpose of this study is to utilize Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission imaging (PiB PET) to ascertain the relationship between change in amyloid burden over time and concurrent change in clinical status. This is a prospective, open label, non-therapeutic, diagnostic imaging study. The purpose of this study is to utilize Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission imaging (PiB PET) to ascertain the relationship between change in amyloid burden over time and concurrent change in clinical status.

>>NCT01736579
The purpose of this long-term study is to provide additional evidence of safety and efficacy of IGIV, 10% treatment in participants with Alzheimers Disease who have completed the Phase 3 Baxter precursor study 160701. All participants will receive IGIV, 10% at either 0.2 g/kg or 0.4 g/kg body weight depending on their treatment assignment in Baxter study 160701. Participants and investigators will be blinded to dose unless otherwise notified by the sponsor.

>>NCT01225809
Patients who were vaccinated with AFFITOPE AD01 during AFFiRiS001 will undergo a long-term follow-up period to get more information regarding the safety profile of AFFITOPE AD01.

>>NCT00476008
The purpose of the study is to determine whether memantine delays the progression of driving impairment in patients with mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of the study is to determine whether memantine delays the progression of driving impairment in patients with mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT00654563
The study is designed to collect data regarding the clinical course and outcome of patients suffering from memory disorders. Visits are charged to the individual's insurance inclusive of Medicare. Patients benefit from expert evaluation and treatment recommendations. Participants may be eligible for participation in experimental treatments in the future. The study is designed to collect data regarding the clinical course and outcome of patients suffering from memory disorders. Visits are charged to the individual's insurance inclusive of Medicare. Patients benefit from expert evaluation and treatment recommendations. Participants may be eligible for participation in experimental treatments in the future.

>>NCT00088751
Objectives. The proposed clinical study has two goals: First, to assess the efficacy of a central nervous system stimulant and an atypical antipsychotic in treating the behavioral symptoms of FTD and second, to further characterize the biological markers, including genetic, imaging and CSF proteins, of FTD in relation to our existing group of Alzheimer's patients.
 Rationale. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is increasingly recognized as an important neuropsychiatric disorder. Symptoms of FTD include disinhibition, impulsivity, apathy, affective lability and language dysfunction. The clinical syndrome is associated with frontal and/or anterior temporal atrophy on imaging and autopsy. Levels of the CSF proteins tau and (Beta)-amyloid 1-42, shown to have diagnostic utility in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD), have also been found to be abnormal in FTD. FTD is less associated with APOE genotype than AD, however some familial cases of FTD are associated with specific mutations in the gene encoding the tau protein. Currently, no treatments have been proven to be effective for altering the course or clinical symptoms of FTD.
 Design. Study subjects will include 50 male and female patients with mild-moderate frontotemporal dementia recruited from participants in NINDS protocol 02-N-0001. In a double-blinded crossover 11-week study without a placebo control, patients will be treated with a stimulant (dextroamphetamine) and an atypical antipsychotic (quetiapine). The primary outcome measures will be the Neuropsychiatric Inventory and the Clinical Global Impression of Change. Cerebrospinal fluid, cognitive and genetic measures, brain MRIs and side effects scales will also be collected. Objectives. The proposed clinical study has two goals: First, to assess the efficacy of a central nervous system stimulant and an atypical antipsychotic in treating the behavioral symptoms of FTD and second, to further characterize the biological markers, including genetic, imaging and CSF proteins, of FTD in relation to our existing group of Alzheimer's patients.
 Rationale. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is increasingly recognized as an important neuropsychiatric disorder. Symptoms of FTD include disinhibition, impulsivity, apathy, affective lability and language dysfunction. The clinical syndrome is associated with frontal and/or anterior temporal atrophy on imaging and autopsy. Levels of the CSF proteins tau and (Beta)-amyloid 1-42, shown to have diagnostic utility in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD), have also been found to be abnormal in FTD. FTD is less associated with APOE genotype than AD, however some familial cases of FTD are associated with specific mutations in the gene encoding the tau protein. Currently, no treatments have been proven to be effective for altering the course or clinical symptoms of FTD.
 Design. Study subjects will include 50 male and female patients with mild-moderate frontotemporal dementia recruited from participants in NINDS protocol 02-N-0001. In a double-blinded crossover 11-week study without a placebo control, patients will be treated with a stimulant (dextroamphetamine) and an atypical antipsychotic (quetiapine). The primary outcome measures will be the Neuropsychiatric Inventory and the Clinical Global Impression of Change. Cerebrospinal fluid, cognitive and genetic measures, brain MRIs and side effects scales will also be collected.

>>NCT00693004
A randomized placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of PRX-03140 monotherapy in subjects with Alzheimer's disease. The study consists of a 3-month double-blind treatment period and an optional 3-month extension period.

>>NCT00675623
The Connection Study is a six-month confirmatory Phase 3 study to determine the safety and efficacy of Dimebon in the treatment of mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. The Connection Study is a six-month confirmatory Phase 3 study to determine the safety and efficacy of Dimebon in the treatment of mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00104273
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of two dose levels of rasagiline mesylate versus placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease who are taking Aricept.

>>NCT00678431
Alzheimer's disease (AD), one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the elderly is characterized by progressive cognitive decline and certain neuropathological features.
 Currently, there is great interest in the well-documented mitochondrial (oxidative) lesion in AD. Disturbed oxidative metabolism is a well described abnormality in AD. Several observational studies have shown that moderate consumption of wine is associated with a lower incidence of Alzheimer's disease (Truelsen et al., 2002; Luchsinger et al., 2004). Wine is enriched in antioxidant compounds with potential neuroprotective activities. In the early 1990s the presence of Resveratrol in red wine was detected where it is suspected to afford antioxidant and neuroprotective properties (Miller and Rice-Evans, 1995).
 Blass and Gordon (2004) have demonstrated positive effects in AD with an oral preparation of glucose, malate and resveratrol. Glucose is the physiological precursor of the substrates of oxidative metabolism in the brain, malate is a primer of the energy-providing Krebs-cycle. Glucose and malate therefore can provide reducing equivalents (electrons) to regenerate the reduced form of resveratrol and do so under the normal regulation of brain cell metabolism. All three ingredients are classified by the FDA as Generally Recognized As Safe. Alzheimer's disease (AD), one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the elderly is characterized by progressive cognitive decline and certain neuropathological features.
 Currently, there is great interest in the well-documented mitochondrial (oxidative) lesion in AD. Disturbed oxidative metabolism is a well described abnormality in AD. Several observational studies have shown that moderate consumption of wine is associated with a lower incidence of Alzheimer's disease (Truelsen et al., 2002; Luchsinger et al., 2004). Wine is enriched in antioxidant compounds with potential neuroprotective activities. In the early 1990s the presence of Resveratrol in red wine was detected where it is suspected to afford antioxidant and neuroprotective properties (Miller and Rice-Evans, 1995).
 Blass and Gordon (2004) have demonstrated positive effects in AD with an oral preparation of glucose, malate and resveratrol. Glucose is the physiological precursor of the substrates of oxidative metabolism in the brain, malate is a primer of the energy-providing Krebs-cycle. Glucose and malate therefore can provide reducing equivalents (electrons) to regenerate the reduced form of resveratrol and do so under the normal regulation of brain cell metabolism. All three ingredients are classified by the FDA as Generally Recognized As Safe.

>>NCT00216593
The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness and safety of galantamine hydrobromide treatment in patients with severe Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness and safety of galantamine hydrobromide treatment in patients with severe Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01303133
The primary objective of this study is to assess the presence of amyloid in non-demented/functionally stable adults with DS as a function of age, dividing the sample into amyloid-positive and amyloid-negative groups. We will also obtain baseline cognitive measures across a range of areas that are often affected by AD. The primary objective of this study is to assess the presence of amyloid in non-demented/functionally stable adults with DS as a function of age, dividing the sample into amyloid-positive and amyloid-negative groups. We will also obtain baseline cognitive measures across a range of areas that are often affected by AD.

>>NCT00795418
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of repeated subcutaneous injections of CAD106 in patients with mid Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00874939
This study will evaluate acute symptomatic improvements in cognitive performance in healthy elderly participants with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. A four-week pilot study will first evaluate the CogState computerized cognitive battery in participants who are not receiving treatment. After completion of the pilot study, participants will be randomized to receive Placebo, Donepezil 5 mg, MK-0249 7.5 mg and MK-0249 25 mg. After each drug administration the participants will be given the CogState computerized cognitive battery to assess cognitive performance. The primary hypotheses are that cognitive performance in participants with Alzheimer's disease or in healthy participants, is improved by the administration of a single oral 5 mg dose of Donepezil as compared to placebo.

>>NCT00979446
Numerous modifiable lifestyle factors have been identified that may affect the risk of older adults developing mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Evidence suggests that interventions to reduce risk factors and enhance protective factors would be beneficial in slowing cognitive decline and decreasing the risk of incident MCI and AD. The overall objective of this pilot study, funded as a supplement to Keep Active Minnesota (KAM) (03-024; R01-AG023410) is to develop and test the feasibility of conducting a multi-domain intervention to maintain cognitive health in adults ages 60-80 with the goal of reducing the incidence of and slowing progression to MCI and other more severe forms of cognitive decline. Numerous modifiable lifestyle factors have been identified that may affect the risk of older adults developing mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Evidence suggests that interventions to reduce risk factors and enhance protective factors would be beneficial in slowing cognitive decline and decreasing the risk of incident MCI and AD. The overall objective of this pilot study, funded as a supplement to Keep Active Minnesota (KAM) (03-024; R01-AG023410) is to develop and test the feasibility of conducting a multi-domain intervention to maintain cognitive health in adults ages 60-80 with the goal of reducing the incidence of and slowing progression to MCI and other more severe forms of cognitive decline.

>>NCT01217021
This research will look at how the brain may change in people with Alzheimer disease (AD).
 The purpose of this research is to find out whether changes in the brain in people with Alzheimer disease can be detected using a brain imaging test. Most people with Alzheimer disease have changes in the brain that result in deposits of a protein called beta-amyloid. In this study, the investigators will be using a radioactive drug, [18F]MNI-558 that binds to beta-amyloid. This drug is experimental and has not been approved by the FDA. Brain imaging using PET (positron emission tomography) will be done to see if the investigators can evaluate the areas of beta-amyloid in the subjects with Alzheimer disease. The investigators will compare these scans with those done in healthy normal volunteers. PET is a brain-scanning test used in medicine and scientific research to see how the brain is working. The PET imaging test used in this study is not being done for diagnostic purposes. This research will look at how the brain may change in people with Alzheimer disease (AD).
 The purpose of this research is to find out whether changes in the brain in people with Alzheimer disease can be detected using a brain imaging test. Most people with Alzheimer disease have changes in the brain that result in deposits of a protein called beta-amyloid. In this study, the investigators will be using a radioactive drug, [18F]MNI-558 that binds to beta-amyloid. This drug is experimental and has not been approved by the FDA. Brain imaging using PET (positron emission tomography) will be done to see if the investigators can evaluate the areas of beta-amyloid in the subjects with Alzheimer disease. The investigators will compare these scans with those done in healthy normal volunteers. PET is a brain-scanning test used in medicine and scientific research to see how the brain is working. The PET imaging test used in this study is not being done for diagnostic purposes.

>>NCT01615666
The purpose of this study is to use a functional MRI (fMRI) index to compare the brain activity of healthy volunteers to that of people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease. The ultimate goal is to develop an early diagnostic tool for Alzheimer's disease.
 The study hypotheses are:.
 1. The fMRI index will differentiate between Alzheimer's disease, non-Alzheimer's dementia and healthy volunteers;.
 2. The fMRI index will distinguish participants with MCI who convert to Alzheimer's disease from those who convert to a non-Alzheimer's dementia and those who remain stable;.
 3. MCI participants with a lower fMRI index at baseline who convert will progress to Alzheimer's sooner than those with a higher fMRI index and MCI participants with a faster rate of fMRI index decline who convert will have an earlier onset of Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to use a functional MRI (fMRI) index to compare the brain activity of healthy volunteers to that of people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease. The ultimate goal is to develop an early diagnostic tool for Alzheimer's disease.
 The study hypotheses are:.
 1. The fMRI index will differentiate between Alzheimer's disease, non-Alzheimer's dementia and healthy volunteers;.
 2. The fMRI index will distinguish participants with MCI who convert to Alzheimer's disease from those who convert to a non-Alzheimer's dementia and those who remain stable;.
 3. MCI participants with a lower fMRI index at baseline who convert will progress to Alzheimer's sooner than those with a higher fMRI index and MCI participants with a faster rate of fMRI index decline who convert will have an earlier onset of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02392468
Single site, parallel-group, double-blind trial of low or high dose of BI 409306 to evaluate the ocular and systemic safety and pharmacokinetics during 14 day treatment period in patients with schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease or age comparable healthy volunteers.

>>NCT00658125
Background: Alzheimer disease (AD) is a debilitating brain disorder that affects over 4.75 million people in the US and Canada. People with AD have difficulty remembering general facts and previously experienced autobiographical events. Animal and human research demonstrates that this type of memory depends on neural function within specific brain areas and that it may be possible to enhance memory with electrical stimulation of these brain areas. We have recently shown that deep brain stimulation (DBS) of a brain area called the fornix enhances memory in a human.
 Hypotheses: We hypothesize that fornix DBS will safely enhance memory in early AD patients by activating memory circuits in the brain.
 Methods: Six early AD patients will take part in a phase I clinical study over a 1-year period. The study involves bilateral fornix DBS implantation, detailed neuropsychological and neurological testing and brain imaging to detect alterations in brain activity induced by stimulation. These assessments will occur one month before surgery, then again at one month, 6 months and 12 months after surgery.

>>NCT00172900
The white matter change of the Alzheimer's disease could be studied by diffusion tensor image and MR spectroscopy to see the microstructral and biochemical change.

>>NCT00608946
The efficacy of 8 mg of copper daily regarding cognitive function, content of beta amyloid protein in the CSF and volumetric changes in the brain will be examined in a first double-blind, placebo-controlled human clinical trial conducted in 70 patients with mild Alzheimers dementia.

>>NCT00544453
The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I MNI-308, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged Alzheimer's (AD) subjects and healthy controls.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I MNI-308 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I MNI-308 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I MNI-308 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy control The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I MNI-308, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged Alzheimer's (AD) subjects and healthy controls.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I MNI-308 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I MNI-308 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I MNI-308 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy control.

>>NCT01948791
To investigate the efficacy of Exelon capsule at maximal tolerated dose in mild to moderate Chinese AD patients via dosage titration from 3mg/d to 12mg/d in a 16 weeks duration.

>>NCT00568776
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the dose-related safety and efficacy of multiple oral dosages of ELND005 as treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the dose-related safety and efficacy of multiple oral dosages of ELND005 as treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01566071
The main objectives of this study are:.
 - To evaluate the driving capacities in a population of elderly subjects with early stage Alzheimer Disease (AD) in a real-life situation.
 - Define a typology of the main errors made in this population.
 - Propose adaptive measures or technological aids that would make it possible for these patients to maintain their ability to drive a car while limiting risk.

>>NCT01245530
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two fixed dose (1200mg/day, 1600mg/day) of INM-176 (a drug of treating dementia) comparing with donepezil for treatment for patients with Alzheimer type dementia. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two fixed dose (1200mg/day, 1600mg/day) of INM-176 (a drug of treating dementia) comparing with donepezil for treatment for patients with Alzheimer type dementia.

>>NCT02442778
Patients with agitation secondary to dementia of the Alzheimer's type. The diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) will be based on the '2011 Diagnostic Guidelines for Alzheimer's Disease' issued by the National Institute on Aging (NIA)-Alzheimer's Association (AA) workgroups. Patients with agitation secondary to dementia of the Alzheimer's type. The diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) will be based on the '2011 Diagnostic Guidelines for Alzheimer's Disease' issued by the National Institute on Aging (NIA)-Alzheimer's Association (AA) workgroups.

>>NCT00596284
This study will evaluate the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy in treating anxiety in older adults with dementia. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy in treating anxiety in older adults with dementia.

>>NCT00621647
The purpose of this study is to determine how safe and effective Seroquel (quetiapine fumarate) is compared to placebo (a non-drug tablet) for a period of up to 10 weeks in the treatment of agitation symptoms in nursing home or assisted care residents.
 PLEASE NOTE: Seroquel SR and Seroquel XR refer to the same formulation. The SR designation was changed to XR after consultation with FDA.

>>NCT00165724
Open study for efficacy and safety of donepezil treatment during 48 weeks.

>>NCT00597376
The purpose of this six-month research study is to determine if Cerefolin NAC reduces levels of substances in the blood that may be associated with thinking ability and the health of brain cells in subjects with memory concerns when compared to a standard multivitamin. Cerefolin NAC is available as a dietary supplement via a prescription from a physician. The multivitamin used in the study contains the Recommended Daily Intake recommended for older persons. The purpose of this six-month research study is to determine if Cerefolin NAC reduces levels of substances in the blood that may be associated with thinking ability and the health of brain cells in subjects with memory concerns when compared to a standard multivitamin. Cerefolin NAC is available as a dietary supplement via a prescription from a physician. The multivitamin used in the study contains the Recommended Daily Intake recommended for older persons.

>>NCT00219232
The goal of this research study is to evaluate, in the open-label extension phase, the safety and efficacy of the rivastigmine transdermal patch in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00679627
The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness and safety of 2 years of treatment with galantamine as compared with placebo of patients who have mild to moderately severe Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness and safety of 2 years of treatment with galantamine as compared with placebo of patients who have mild to moderately severe Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01687153
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) and post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are common combat related problems and may be associated with a greater risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to examine the possible connections between TBI and PTSD and the signs and symptoms of AD on Veterans as they age.
 The information collected will help to learn more about how these injuries may affect Veterans of the Vietnam War as they grow older, as well as Veterans of the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, who also have these types of combat related injuries. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) and post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are common combat related problems and may be associated with a greater risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to examine the possible connections between TBI and PTSD and the signs and symptoms of AD on Veterans as they age.
 The information collected will help to learn more about how these injuries may affect Veterans of the Vietnam War as they grow older, as well as Veterans of the current wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, who also have these types of combat related injuries.

>>NCT02052947
One of the crucial challenges for the future of Alzheimer's disease (AD) therapeutic approaches in elderly is to target the main pathological process responsible for disability and dependency. However, a progressive cognitive impairment occurring after the age of 70 is often related to mixed lesions of neurodegenerative and vascular origins. Whereas young patients are mostly affected by pure lesions, aging favors the occurrence of co-lesions of AD, vascular and Lewy body types. Pure DLB (Dementia with Lewy Body) and AD are distinct disorders but they often coexist in old age patients, the Abeta pathology of DLB/AD cases being different to that observed in patients with AD alone. Vascular dementia (VD) and AD with cerebrovascular disease (AD+CVD) are the leading causes of dementia next to AD alone. Lack of consensus persists about the diagnosis criteria for VD and AD+CVD, due in part to their clinical, pathological heterogeneity and the multiple pathological subtypes.
 We do not know the precise role and weight of each brain lesion type in the disability progression in elderly. To target the actual pathological process, we need to disclose the functional weight of AD, Lewy body and vascular lesion types in elderly. Most of the studies report on functional and clinical abnormalities in patients with pure pathologies. Thus, co-morbid processes involved in the transition from an independent functional status to disability in the elderly with co-lesions still remain to be elucidated. Neuropathological examination often performed at late stages cannot answer this question at mild or moderate stages.
 Brain MRI, Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) with DaTscan and CSF biomarkers help routinely in performing the diagnosis of pure or mixed lesions responsible for dementia. The topography of the atrophy in MRI helps to provide information about the etiological diagnosis. Medial temporal lobe atrophy on MRI has good discriminatory power for AD compared to DLB and VD in pathologically confirmed cases. DaTscan SPECT presents with good sensitivity and specificity at early stages of DLB. The good diagnosis value of CSF biological markers has led recently to their inclusion in the research diagnosis criteria of AD. Low A1-42 and high levels of total tau and hyperphosphorylated tau isoforms appear to be the most sensitive and specific CSF biomarkers. A1-42 is lowered in AD, as well as in other neurodegenerative diseases like DLB, VD. The combination of MRI, particularly medial temporal atrophy measures and vascular lesions on FLAIR MRI sequences, SPECT and CSF biomarkers seem to be of incremental value for the diagnosis AD, VD, DLB and mixed profiles.
 The aim of this study is to identify the biomarkers (MRI, SPECT-DaTscan and CSF) and their combination, that are the most predictive of functional disability in elderly presenting with a progressive cognitive decline related to AD, DLB, VD and all mixed patterns.

>>NCT00355498
Amyloid senile plaques (SPs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) that also accumulate in key brain regions in association with normal aging. This project will expand an established program in early detection and prevention of AD designed (1) to identify presymptomatic persons most likely to benefit from early intervention and (2) to provide an objective, noninvasive means to monitor therapeutic trials. Amyloid senile plaques (SPs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) that also accumulate in key brain regions in association with normal aging. This project will expand an established program in early detection and prevention of AD designed (1) to identify presymptomatic persons most likely to benefit from early intervention and (2) to provide an objective, noninvasive means to monitor therapeutic trials.

>>NCT02393027
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) is a degenerative disease affecting the dopaminergic system. Clinical symptoms of IPD commonly begin after the loss of at least 40 to 50% of striatal dopaminergic terminals (specially putaminal terminals).
 The Dopamine neuronal transporter (DAT) is a highly expressed protein in the membrane of presynaptic nigrostriatal dopaminergic terminals. The use of a DAT's radioligand in the initial stages of the disease would lead to an early detection of nigral cell loss.
 Currently, only one DAT's radioligand has obtained marketing authorization in France, the 123I-FPCIT, for use in Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT).
 Otherwise, the Positron Emission Tomography (PET), a more sensitive technology than SPECT with higher resolution has become for a few years the new gold standard for visual analysis and quantification of neurotransmission systems (including the dopaminergic system).
 A DAT tracer labelled with Carbon 11 ([11C] PE2l) have been developed and is currently used as a reference in various research centers.
 However, in order to enable a clinical use of this tracer (which currently can't be because of the too short period of Carbon 11), the unit INSERM U930 "Imaging and Brain" in collaboration with the CERRP (Center for Studies and Research on Radiopharmaceuticals) developed a new version of this tracer, labelled with 18-fluor: the [18F] LBT-999.
 The main goal of this study is to compare the [18F] LBT-999 uptake between a group of patients suffering from a Parkinsonien syndrome to a group healthy volunteers.

>>NCT02114372
The purpose of this study is to investigate the natural history of cognitive and functional changes in participants at risk for developing mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) (MCI-AD). The purpose of this study is to investigate the natural history of cognitive and functional changes in participants at risk for developing mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) (MCI-AD).

>>NCT00283725
The purpose of this observational study is to examine patterns of treatment care for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a real-world arena and to examine the association with different outcomes for patients and informal caregivers. The purpose of this observational study is to examine patterns of treatment care for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a real-world arena and to examine the association with different outcomes for patients and informal caregivers.

>>NCT01585272
This phase IIIb study is intended to implement a consistent treatment way for switching to Exelon transdermal patch from oral formulation of rivastigmine to stress the importance of (1) advantages of transdermal patch over conventional oral therapies: smooth drug delivery with reduced side effects;(2) encourage treatment compliance in the Alzheimer's dementia setting.
 This study is a single-arm, treatment-switched design. Eligible patients, who are under Exelon capsule 3 mg b.i.d. treatment for 4 weeks before Visit 2, will be recruited, followed by treatment switch from oral capsule to patch for 48 weeks maintenance treatment. During the maintenance period, the treatment will be initiated with Exelon Patch 4.6 mg/24 hours (Exelon Patch 5 cm2) for the first 24 weeks and the dose will be escalated to Exelon Patch 9.5 mg/24 hours (Exelon Patch 10 cm2) for another 24 weeks if well tolerated. Visits to assess safety are scheduled at baseline, 3 days, 1 week and 2 weeks after the first treatment switch, every 4 weeks until Week 40 and at the end of study (Week 52). The assessment to address the primary objective will focus on the safety of treatment switching (Week 0 - 28); however the safety assessment will be performed during the whole study period.

>>NCT00236431
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of galantamine treatment in patients with mild cognitive impairment. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of galantamine treatment in patients with mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT02192554
To follow-up on the safety of subjects who were previously treated in a double-blind trial of brexpiprazole. To follow-up on the safety of subjects who were previously treated in a double-blind trial of brexpiprazole.

>>NCT01276353
The purpose of this study is to compare 23 mg donepezil sustained release (SR) to the currently marketed formulation of 10 mg donepezil immediate release (IR) in patients with severe Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02565511
The purpose of this study is to test whether two investigational drugs called CAD106 and CNP520, administered separately, can slow down the onset and progression of clinical symptoms associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in participants at the risk to develop clinical symptoms based on their age and genotype. The purpose of this study is to test whether two investigational drugs called CAD106 and CNP520, administered separately, can slow down the onset and progression of clinical symptoms associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in participants at the risk to develop clinical symptoms based on their age and genotype.

>>NCT00315575
The purpose of this study is to develop imaging techniques that can distinguish functional brain changes in people at high risk for dementia years prior to onset of clinical memory problems from those with normal changes of aging. The purpose of this study is to develop imaging techniques that can distinguish functional brain changes in people at high risk for dementia years prior to onset of clinical memory problems from those with normal changes of aging.

>>NCT00015548
The CATIE Alzheimer's Disease Trial is part of the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE) Project. The study is for people with Alzheimer's disease who are having trouble with their thinking or behavior. In particular, this study is trying to find out the best treatment for people who have hallucinations (seeing or hearing things that aren't there), delusions (false beliefs) or agitation. The design of the trial helps to increase the chance that participants in the study receive a medication that helps them. The study uses three medications known as atypical antipsychotics (olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone), which are the newest medications that are currently available for treating these problems. Participants may also receive an antidepressant (citalopram). The trial lasts for 36 weeks. Participants are given a thorough evaluation at no cost to ensure that this study is appropriate. In addition, the caregiver, family member or friend who comes with the participant will be offered an educational program about Alzheimer's disease. The CATIE Alzheimer's Disease Trial is part of the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention Effectiveness (CATIE) Project. The study is for people with Alzheimer's disease who are having trouble with their thinking or behavior. In particular, this study is trying to find out the best treatment for people who have hallucinations (seeing or hearing things that aren't there), delusions (false beliefs) or agitation. The design of the trial helps to increase the chance that participants in the study receive a medication that helps them. The study uses three medications known as atypical antipsychotics (olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone), which are the newest medications that are currently available for treating these problems. Participants may also receive an antidepressant (citalopram). The trial lasts for 36 weeks. Participants are given a thorough evaluation at no cost to ensure that this study is appropriate. In addition, the caregiver, family member or friend who comes with the participant will be offered an educational program about Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02267057
The purpose of this study is to determine whether pain treatment can reduce symptoms of depression in patients suffering from dementia and depression. Depression is commonly diagnosed in patients with dementia. If the investigators find a reduction in depressive symptoms when pain treatment is applied, this will support the hypothesis that undiagnosed pain may present itself as depression in patients with dementia.

>>NCT02273895
The objective of this study is to compare the electroencephalography (EEG) responses of three distinct groups of individuals to scopolamine: 1) a group of Alzheimer Dementia (AD) patients, 2) a group of individuals suffering from Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and 3) a group of controls. The main purpose of this comparison is to discover ways to use these responses to distinguish between the group of AD patients and controls in order to develop a diagnostic tool for AD. The purpose of including the MCI group is to investigate whether this diagnostic tool can predict which member of the MCI group will develop AD later in life.

>>NCT02323334
This study involves single and multiple doses of LY3202626 and will evaluate the effects of LY3202626 on the body. There will be 4 parts to this study. In Parts A and B, single increasing doses of LY3202626 will be given in capsule form. Part A will also include itraconazole given orally as a solution. Part A will last approximately 8-12 weeks. Part B will last approximately 5-6 weeks. In Parts C and D, participants will be dosed multiple days with the study drug. Part C will last approximately 11-14 weeks. Part D will last approximately 11-14 weeks and participants must have Alzheimer's Disease. Participants may only enroll in one part.

>>NCT02147652
Symptoms of agitation include abuse or aggressive behaviour toward self or others, appropriate behaviour performed with inappropriate frequency or behaviours that are inappropriate according to social standards. In the later stages of dementia agitation can contribute significantly to patient distress and caregiver stress and has been associated with poor quality of life. Previous research studies have shown some evidence that personalized music played in daily care situations reduces agitation. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of personalized music therapy via headphones on agitation during hygiene care (grooming).
 This study will involve 60 in-patients of the Geriatric Psychiatry ward of Toronto Rehabilitation Institute. The study would take place over the span of 2 weeks and would involve listening to personalized and either non-personalized or no music during daily hygiene care (grooming). Enrolment is completely voluntary and all personal data obtained will remain confidential.

>>NCT02462291
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent form of dementia, causing high level of disability with elevated social costs. Alternative solutions to the standard pharmacological therapies have been studied in order to reduce the use of medications that frequently generates side effects and worsen patients' quality of life. A recent alternative treatment for AD is the Environmental Ecological Therapy (EET) that, with the use of therapeutic gardens, seems to reduce behavioral disorders (BD). However, the effectiveness of this approach is still mater of debate. Therefore, the aim of this trial will be to analyze the effects of EET, in people with severe AD. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent form of dementia, causing high level of disability with elevated social costs. Alternative solutions to the standard pharmacological therapies have been studied in order to reduce the use of medications that frequently generates side effects and worsen patients' quality of life. A recent alternative treatment for AD is the Environmental Ecological Therapy (EET) that, with the use of therapeutic gardens, seems to reduce behavioral disorders (BD). However, the effectiveness of this approach is still mater of debate. Therefore, the aim of this trial will be to analyze the effects of EET, in people with severe AD.

>>NCT02761707
This study seeks to establish the sensitivity and specificity of what appears to be a unique brainstem biomarker of Parkinson's Disease (PD) - an electrically induced olygosynaptic nasotrigeminal reflex response - in differentiating early stage PD from normal controls and from patients with various other neurodegenerative diseases. This study will additionally compare the biomarker to olfactory testing. This study seeks to establish the sensitivity and specificity of what appears to be a unique brainstem biomarker of Parkinson's Disease (PD) - an electrically induced olygosynaptic nasotrigeminal reflex response - in differentiating early stage PD from normal controls and from patients with various other neurodegenerative diseases. This study will additionally compare the biomarker to olfactory testing.

>>NCT00099242
The goal of this research study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the rivastigmine transdermal patch in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00017940
This Phase I clinical trial is the first step in testing gene therapy. This study is called a "Safety/Toxicity" study by the Food and Drug Administration and primarily aims to determine whether the experimental protocol is safe for humans. It will determine whether the study procedure causes side effects in humans and may also give us a preliminary sense of whether this will be effective in combating Alzheimer's disease in humans. This Phase I clinical trial is the first step in testing gene therapy. This study is called a "Safety/Toxicity" study by the Food and Drug Administration and primarily aims to determine whether the experimental protocol is safe for humans. It will determine whether the study procedure causes side effects in humans and may also give us a preliminary sense of whether this will be effective in combating Alzheimer's disease in humans.

>>NCT01515982
The state of the art with regard to the neurodegenerative dementias, especially for Alzheimers disease (AD), is that their progression is still irreversible causing cognitive, motor and behavioral impairment. Although the current pharmacological treatments attenuate cognitive decline in some cases, the majority of treatments does not avoid the motor and functional changes caused by the progress of the disease. Although several studies show that exercise has a positive effect when it comes to the treatment of the disease, some methodological questions affect the application of the training protocols. The use of recognized intensity patterns like maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) and maximum heart rate (HRmax) percentage to control the training of patients with dementia is still rare in the literature. Therefore, this seems to interfere on the definition of an ideal prescription. Following this line of reasoning, the purpose of the present study is to assess the effect of moderate aerobic exercise on cognition and functional abilities in AD patients. Design: Randomized controlled trial, double-blinded, with 16-week follow-up. Setting: Center for Alzheimer's disease in the Institute of Psychiatry of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. Participants: Elderly with Alzheimer disease. Interventions: The patients will be randomly assigned to an exercise group (EG) on a treadmill (30 minutes, twice a week and moderate intensity of 60% VO2max) and a control group (CG). Main outcome measures: Cognitive function will be assessed using CAMCOG, Trail Making Test A, Digit Span, Stroop Test, Rey auditory-verbal learning test and Clock Test and functional capacity will be evaluated using Berg Balance Scale (BERG), Sit-to-Stand test (STS), functional reach test (FR) and the time to up and go test (TUGT). The state of the art with regard to the neurodegenerative dementias, especially for Alzheimers disease (AD), is that their progression is still irreversible causing cognitive, motor and behavioral impairment. Although the current pharmacological treatments attenuate cognitive decline in some cases, the majority of treatments does not avoid the motor and functional changes caused by the progress of the disease. Although several studies show that exercise has a positive effect when it comes to the treatment of the disease, some methodological questions affect the application of the training protocols. The use of recognized intensity patterns like maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) and maximum heart rate (HRmax) percentage to control the training of patients with dementia is still rare in the literature. Therefore, this seems to interfere on the definition of an ideal prescription. Following this line of reasoning, the purpose of the present study is to assess the effect of moderate aerobic exercise on cognition and functional abilities in AD patients. Design: Randomized controlled trial, double-blinded, with 16-week follow-up. Setting: Center for Alzheimer's disease in the Institute of Psychiatry of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro. Participants: Elderly with Alzheimer disease. Interventions: The patients will be randomly assigned to an exercise group (EG) on a treadmill (30 minutes, twice a week and moderate intensity of 60% VO2max) and a control group (CG). Main outcome measures: Cognitive function will be assessed using CAMCOG, Trail Making Test A, Digit Span, Stroop Test, Rey auditory-verbal learning test and Clock Test and functional capacity will be evaluated using Berg Balance Scale (BERG), Sit-to-Stand test (STS), functional reach test (FR) and the time to up and go test (TUGT).

>>NCT02551809
The purpose of this Phase IIa study is to determine whether the AD Immunotherapeutic Vaccine (UB-311), targeting the amyloid beta peptide (N-terminal amino acids, 1-14), is safe and immunogenic in mild AD patients. In addition, the efficacy profiles will be evaluated as the secondary endpoint.

>>NCT02309723
When older patients develop cognitive problems - like memory loss - there may be any of several underlying causes, sometimes occurring in combination. Clinicians have a better chance of providing appropriate treatment if they understand what the cause of the problem is. A diagnostic tool can help the patient by helping the clinician to make a more accurate diagnosis. This study investigates whether a new diagnostic tool - beta amyloid imaging - may potentially improve medical practice. The tool can potentially improve practice only if it can influence clinical judgment. This study investigates whether the provision of beta amyloid imaging information influences clinical judgment. The investigators will conduct a survey that presents clinicians with descriptions of hypothetical older patients with cognitive complaints. Some of the respondents also receive beta amyloid imaging information. The investigators will test the investigators hypothesis that the information will affect diagnostic judgment and management recommendations by comparing the responses of clinicians who receive the beta amyloid information to the responses of clinicians who do not.

>>NCT00291161
Background: Partners in Dementia Care (PDC) is a care coordination and support service intervention for veterans with dementia and their family caregivers, delivered through partnerships between VA medical centers and local Alzheimer's Association Chapters. PDC was designed to be a feasible and practical intervention to integrate health, community and support services. PDC has a standardized protocol for care coordination and support services, including guidelines for care plan assessment, care plan development and implementation, ongoing monitoring and reassessment. It also offers a structured training curriculum for providers and an operations manual for uniform implementation.
 Objectives: The primary objective was to test the impact of PDC on outcomes for veterans with dementia and family caregivers. Two specific research objectives and corresponding hypotheses were addressed: 1. To test the impact of PDC on three categories of outcomes: psychosocial well-being outcomes (patient and caregiver effects); health care service use (patient effects only); and health care cost (patient effects only). HI:PDC, compared to usual care, will improve psychosocial well-being for patients with dementia and their caregivers. H2:PDC, compared to usual care, will reduce health care service use for patients with dementia. H3:PDC is preferred to usual care based on cost-benefit analyses. H4:The PDC intervention will be more effective in improving psychosocial well-being and reducing health care service use for patients and caregivers dealing with more severe patient impairment (e.g., cognitive status, functional status and level of problem behaviors). 2. To evaluate the impact of PDC on role and intra-psychic strains caused by dementia and its care (patient and caregiver effects). H5a:PDC, compared to usual care, will decrease patient role and intra-psychic strain. H5b:PDC, compared to usual care, will decrease caregiver role and intra-psychic strain. H6:The PDC intervention will be more effective in decreasing role and intra-psychic strains for patients and caregivers dealing with more severe patient impairment (e.g., cognitive status, functional status and level of problem behaviors). Background: Partners in Dementia Care (PDC) is a care coordination and support service intervention for veterans with dementia and their family caregivers, delivered through partnerships between VA medical centers and local Alzheimer's Association Chapters. PDC was designed to be a feasible and practical intervention to integrate health, community and support services. PDC has a standardized protocol for care coordination and support services, including guidelines for care plan assessment, care plan development and implementation, ongoing monitoring and reassessment. It also offers a structured training curriculum for providers and an operations manual for uniform implementation.
 Objectives: The primary objective was to test the impact of PDC on outcomes for veterans with dementia and family caregivers. Two specific research objectives and corresponding hypotheses were addressed: 1. To test the impact of PDC on three categories of outcomes: psychosocial well-being outcomes (patient and caregiver effects); health care service use (patient effects only); and health care cost (patient effects only). HI:PDC, compared to usual care, will improve psychosocial well-being for patients with dementia and their caregivers. H2:PDC, compared to usual care, will reduce health care service use for patients with dementia. H3:PDC is preferred to usual care based on cost-benefit analyses. H4:The PDC intervention will be more effective in improving psychosocial well-being and reducing health care service use for patients and caregivers dealing with more severe patient impairment (e.g., cognitive status, functional status and level of problem behaviors). 2. To evaluate the impact of PDC on role and intra-psychic strains caused by dementia and its care (patient and caregiver effects). H5a:PDC, compared to usual care, will decrease patient role and intra-psychic strain. H5b:PDC, compared to usual care, will decrease caregiver role and intra-psychic strain. H6:The PDC intervention will be more effective in decreasing role and intra-psychic strains for patients and caregivers dealing with more severe patient impairment (e.g., cognitive status, functional status and level of problem behaviors).

>>NCT02681172
This phase 4 study will explore, in the context of the present French clinical practice, the impact of florbetaben 18F (FBB) in patients evaluated for AD who require a biomarker for etiologic determination of the cognitive and functional impairment but in whom:.
 1. lumbar puncture was not feasible for medical conditions.
 2. results of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis were considered ambiguous by treating physicians.
 3. lumbar puncture was refused by the patient This phase 4 study will explore, in the context of the present French clinical practice, the impact of florbetaben 18F (FBB) in patients evaluated for AD who require a biomarker for etiologic determination of the cognitive and functional impairment but in whom:.
 1. lumbar puncture was not feasible for medical conditions.
 2. results of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis were considered ambiguous by treating physicians.
 3. lumbar puncture was refused by the patient.

>>NCT02664584
Background:.
 Cardiovascular disease (CVD), osteoporosis and dementia are chronic diseases of ageing that impact adversely on the lives of those affected and have major health, social and economic consequences. A number of factors are considered to be implicated in these diseases, ranging from the more established factors to those that are less well recognised. Lifestyle factors such as diet, body weight, smoking, physical activity and years of education are acknowledged as risk factors for the development of these chronic diseases of aging. Emerging research suggests that elevated homocysteine and/or sub-optimal status of the metabolically related B-vitamins (folate, vitamin B12, B6 and riboflavin) may be associated with a higher risk of age-related disease. The interplay between relevant genetic and nutrient factors (gene-nutrient interactions) is considered to be highly relevant in the development (and prevention) of chronic diseases of ageing, however this relatively new area of research is as yet poorly understood. The collection of clinical, lifestyle, nutritional and genetic data on large numbers of patients would permit the investigation of those nutrients which interact with specific genes to increase the likelihood of a person developing chronic diseases of ageing.
 Aim:.
 The aim of the TUDA study is to collect detailed clinical, lifestyle, dietary, genetic and biochemical data to investigate gene-nutrient interactions (particularly from the perspective of the B-vitamins and vitamin D/calcium) in the development of CVD, osteoporosis and dementia by studying older adults exhibiting the early stages of these common diseases, namely hypertension, low bone mineral density and early memory loss, respectively.
 Secondary aim (follow up TUDA investigation):.
 The aim of this longitudinal investigation is to re-assess clinical, nutritional, genetic and biochemical factors in relation to the progression of disease outcomes in TUDA study participants, in subsequent years after initial investigation.
 Study design:.
 A total of 6000 non-institutionalised older Irish people aged over 60 years with early predictors of either dementia, stroke and osteoporosis (namely early memory loss, high blood pressure and low bone mineral density, respectively) recruited from three centres (St James's Hospital Dublin, Ulster University Coleraine and The Clinical Translational Research and Innovation Centre (C-TRIC), Londonderry) across Ireland. Non-fasting blood samples were collected from all subjects and routine blood biochemistry profiles and biomarkers of relevance to B vitamin and vitamin D status were measured. Supplement use was recorded and a targeted food frequency questionnaire was used to record dietary intakes of specific vitamins of interest (folate, B12, B6, riboflavin and D) from major food sources, particularly fortified foods. Physiological function tests including blood pressure, bone health (DXA scans) and cognitive function tests and anthropometric measures were also taken.

>>NCT01023685
This study will investigate the Safety and Tolerability of Repeated Subcutaneous Injections of CAD106 in Alzheimer's Patients.

>>NCT01600469
NMDA activation plays an important role in learning and memory. NMDA receptors were found to decrease in the frontal lobe and hippocampus of Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive function impairment. This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled drug trial. All patients will be allocated randomly to 2 groups: (1) NMDA enhancer: DAOI-B group (starting dose: 250-500 mg/d); (2) placebo group. The study period is 24 weeks. The investigators hypothesize that DAOI-B may yield better efficacy than placebo for cognitive function in patients with mild cognitive impairment or mild Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00056524
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety of AVP-923 in the treatment of Involuntary Emotional Expression Disorder (IEED) also known as Pseudobulbar Affect (episodes of uncontrolled crying and/or laughter). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety of AVP-923 in the treatment of Involuntary Emotional Expression Disorder (IEED) also known as Pseudobulbar Affect (episodes of uncontrolled crying and/or laughter).

>>NCT02162251
To investigate the safety and effectiveness about administration of both donepezil hydrochloride and menatine hydrochloride in patients with Alzheimer's Disease in clinical practice.

>>NCT01354444
This is a 6-month pilot randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial of carvedilol, with the primary objective being to determine whether carvedilol treatment is associated with improvement in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) as compared to placebo treatment. Secondary objectives are to monitor changes in cerebrospinal fluid amyloid levels and whether this dose will be safe and well-tolerated in AD patients. Clinical assessments will be performed at baseline, 3 months and 6 months, while cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples will be obtained at baseline and 6 months. This is a 6-month pilot randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial of carvedilol, with the primary objective being to determine whether carvedilol treatment is associated with improvement in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) as compared to placebo treatment. Secondary objectives are to monitor changes in cerebrospinal fluid amyloid levels and whether this dose will be safe and well-tolerated in AD patients. Clinical assessments will be performed at baseline, 3 months and 6 months, while cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples will be obtained at baseline and 6 months.

>>NCT01926691
Background: Recent studies have demonstrated that even mild stroke survivors experience residual damage, which persists and in fact increases in subsequent years. About 45% of stroke victims remain with different levels of disability. While studies on cognitive impairment and dementia after stroke are receiving increasing clinical attention, the underlying pathophysiology is poorly understood. Identifying the mechanisms involved and recognizing early biomarkers for individual vulnerability, require a multi-modal approach, as the mechanisms involved in cerebrovascular disease and individual trajectories of post-stroke recovery may impact upon each other on various levels.
 Aims and Hypothesis: To date there is no single measure that can be used to identify patients who are prone to develop cognitive impairment and other disabilities from those with better recovery prospects.
 We hypothesize that data based on biochemical, neuroimaging, genetic and psychological measures can, in aggregate, serve as better predictors for subsequent disability, cognitive and neurological deterioration and suggest possible interventions.
 Design: The TABASCO (Tel-Aviv Brain Acute Stroke Cohort) study is an ongoing, prospective cohort study aim to recruit about approximately 1125 consecutive first-ever mild-moderate stroke patients. It is designed to evaluate the association between predefined demographic, psychological, inflammatory, biochemical, neuro-imaging and genetic markers, measured during the acute phase and long-term outcome: subsequent cognitive deterioration, vascular events (including recurrent strokes), falls, affective changes, functional everyday difficulties and mortality.
 Discussion: This study is an attempt to comprehensively investigate the long term outcome of mild-moderate strokes. Its prospective design will provide quantitative data on stroke recurrence, the incidence of other vascular events and the evaluation of cognitive, affective and functional decline. Identifying the factors associated with post stroke cognitive and functional decline could potentially yield more effective therapeutic approaches.
 We believe that an extensive approach of analyzing the interaction between different risk factors would more accurately predict neurological deterioration. Background: Recent studies have demonstrated that even mild stroke survivors experience residual damage, which persists and in fact increases in subsequent years. About 45% of stroke victims remain with different levels of disability. While studies on cognitive impairment and dementia after stroke are receiving increasing clinical attention, the underlying pathophysiology is poorly understood. Identifying the mechanisms involved and recognizing early biomarkers for individual vulnerability, require a multi-modal approach, as the mechanisms involved in cerebrovascular disease and individual trajectories of post-stroke recovery may impact upon each other on various levels.
 Aims and Hypothesis: To date there is no single measure that can be used to identify patients who are prone to develop cognitive impairment and other disabilities from those with better recovery prospects.
 We hypothesize that data based on biochemical, neuroimaging, genetic and psychological measures can, in aggregate, serve as better predictors for subsequent disability, cognitive and neurological deterioration and suggest possible interventions.
 Design: The TABASCO (Tel-Aviv Brain Acute Stroke Cohort) study is an ongoing, prospective cohort study aim to recruit about approximately 1125 consecutive first-ever mild-moderate stroke patients. It is designed to evaluate the association between predefined demographic, psychological, inflammatory, biochemical, neuro-imaging and genetic markers, measured during the acute phase and long-term outcome: subsequent cognitive deterioration, vascular events (including recurrent strokes), falls, affective changes, functional everyday difficulties and mortality.
 Discussion: This study is an attempt to comprehensively investigate the long term outcome of mild-moderate strokes. Its prospective design will provide quantitative data on stroke recurrence, the incidence of other vascular events and the evaluation of cognitive, affective and functional decline. Identifying the factors associated with post stroke cognitive and functional decline could potentially yield more effective therapeutic approaches.
 We believe that an extensive approach of analyzing the interaction between different risk factors would more accurately predict neurological deterioration.

>>NCT01423396
Three quarters of patients with Alzheimer's disease have at least one vascular risk factor (VRF). Vascular brain lesions are present in most Alzheimer's patients (especially older ones). This cerebrovascular disease potentiates Alzheimer's lesions in early-stage disease. Many research studies have shown that VRFs are also risk factors for Alzheimer's disease; this is true for arterial hypertension and dyslipidaemia in particular and, to a lesser extent, diabetes and cardiopathy. Moreover, recent drug trials (SYST-EUR, PROGRESS and HOPE) have indicated that antihypertensive medications can prevent the appearance of dementia (and notably Alzheimer's disease) in over-60 hypertensive subjects. An observational study of 233 Alzheimer's patients with an average follow-up period of 4 years has shown that the annual decline in the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was lower in patients in whom all the VRFs were being treated than in patients in whom no VRFs were being treated (1.5  2.5 points versus 2.5  2 points, respectively; p<0.04).1 However, it is not currently known whether optimal treatment of VRFs can influence the progression and prognosis of Alzheimer's disease. Answering this question could have a significant impact on public health. Three quarters of patients with Alzheimer's disease have at least one vascular risk factor (VRF). Vascular brain lesions are present in most Alzheimer's patients (especially older ones). This cerebrovascular disease potentiates Alzheimer's lesions in early-stage disease. Many research studies have shown that VRFs are also risk factors for Alzheimer's disease; this is true for arterial hypertension and dyslipidaemia in particular and, to a lesser extent, diabetes and cardiopathy. Moreover, recent drug trials (SYST-EUR, PROGRESS and HOPE) have indicated that antihypertensive medications can prevent the appearance of dementia (and notably Alzheimer's disease) in over-60 hypertensive subjects. An observational study of 233 Alzheimer's patients with an average follow-up period of 4 years has shown that the annual decline in the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was lower in patients in whom all the VRFs were being treated than in patients in whom no VRFs were being treated (1.5  2.5 points versus 2.5  2 points, respectively; p<0.04).1 However, it is not currently known whether optimal treatment of VRFs can influence the progression and prognosis of Alzheimer's disease. Answering this question could have a significant impact on public health.

>>NCT02579252
This study evaluates the safety and efficacy of AADvac1 in the treatment of patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.
 60% of participants will receive AADvac1 and 40% of participants will receive placebo. This study evaluates the safety and efficacy of AADvac1 in the treatment of patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.
 60% of participants will receive AADvac1 and 40% of participants will receive placebo.

>>NCT02380573
A double-blind, placebo-controlled study that aims to investigate the effect of 2-week and 12-week administration of USP methylene blue (MB) on cerebral blood flow, functional connectivity, memory and attention cognitive abilities using fMRI and behavioral measures in healthy aging, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) subjects. A double-blind, placebo-controlled study that aims to investigate the effect of 2-week and 12-week administration of USP methylene blue (MB) on cerebral blood flow, functional connectivity, memory and attention cognitive abilities using fMRI and behavioral measures in healthy aging, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) subjects.

>>NCT00006187
This is a 15-month study with two phases. During the first 12-month phase of this study, patients will be randomly assigned to receive either active study drug or placebo (approximately half of all patients will be on active study drug, the other half on placebo). The second phase is a 3-month randomized withdrawal period. For this phase approximately 10% of the patients will remain on the active drug. This is a 15-month study with two phases. During the first 12-month phase of this study, patients will be randomly assigned to receive either active study drug or placebo (approximately half of all patients will be on active study drug, the other half on placebo). The second phase is a 3-month randomized withdrawal period. For this phase approximately 10% of the patients will remain on the active drug.

>>NCT00546767
The purpose of this study is to evaluate three methods of performing home-based assessments in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) prevention trials. The initial in-person assessment will be done in the clinic or at home. The purpose of this study is to evaluate three methods of performing home-based assessments in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) prevention trials. The initial in-person assessment will be done in the clinic or at home.

>>NCT01780519
The investigators' goal is to determine if certain tests of memory and attention, performed while sleepiness is induced by a single dose of lorazepam, can predict whether or not an individual is at risk for developing Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00134953
This study is designed to investigate the efficacy and safety of rivastigmine compared with placebo in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

>>NCT02840045
The purpose of this study is to use a new method to differentiate mnesic abilities of early alzheimer patients and patients with a depressive disorder.
 This method is based on the recording of cerebral activity while patients listen to familiar, unfamiliar and newly-learned music.

>>NCT00380302
Primary: This study is being conducted to evaluate if AVE1625 is safe and tolerated in patients with Alzheimer's disease that is not too severe. There is also evaluation of whether patients who take the study medication improve compared to patients who take a placebo (sugar pill).
 Secondary:The study will also evaluate the blood levels of the study medication, AVE1625 in patients who join the study.

>>NCT01189084
The purpose of this observational study is to determine whether the vaccine (UB 311), targeting the N-terminal amino acids (1-14) of the amyloid beta peptide, has long-term immunogenicity and efficacy in individuals diagnosed with mild or moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) who previously received UB 311-treatment. Amyloid beta was selected as the target antigen based on supporting evidence of the hypothesis that places the accumulation of amyloid beta at the initiating step of AD.

>>NCT01662882
Evaluate florbetapir (18F) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging for distinguishing Japanese healthy control subjects, from Japanese subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or Mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

>>NCT01650454
The increasing incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related sleep-disorders with the aging of the population is a major issue of public health. The prevalence of sleep disturbances is about 50% in dementia patients. Sleep in dementia is mainly characterized by prolonged night-time awakenings, sometimes with longer sleep latency and/or early awakening. The presence of these sleep disturbances is the main reason for the institutionalization of AD patients, as well as a major cause of the deterioration of the caregivers' sleep. The MEMENTO cohort is composed of patients with isolated memory complaints or mild cognitive impairment, at high risk to develop dementia. All voluntary patients from the CMRR (Center of Memory, resources and Research) of Bordeaux (MEMENTO cohort) will be tested at inclusion and followed-up 1 year later. For these two evaluations, actigraphic monitoring at home, 2-night polysomnography (PSG) monitoring at hospital including a 24-hour period of urinary melatonin dosage, neuropsychological tests battery, a virtual reality tool and questionnaires will be used.

>>NCT02059356
The purpose and objective of this study is to determine the prevalence of elevated ammonia levels in subjects with cognitive impairment and to observe if treating the cause of the elevated ammonia level improves mental status. This study does not include any imaging, treatment,or interventions, other than the blood draws. The blood draws will be taken to assess blood ammonia level and liver function. If the the ammonia level is not elevated, no further lab draws will occur. If the ammonia level is elevated, liver function is normal and a cause for the high ammonia level is revealed with a plan for clinical treatment by the subjects' physician, then two more blood draws will occur; one prior to treatment and one 3 months after treatment. The main risk to subjects is related to the blood draw (i.e. momentary discomfort, bruising, infection, bleeding, clotting or fainting) and there is a potential loss of confidentiality. A paired student t test will be done with the two later blood to compare objective data.

>>NCT01249196
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of SK-PC-B70M in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00267163
The goal of this project is to determine if a cholinesterase inhibitor is more effective than placebo in delaying cognitive and brain functional decline in people at risk for Alzheimer's disease. The goal of this project is to determine if a cholinesterase inhibitor is more effective than placebo in delaying cognitive and brain functional decline in people at risk for Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00265148
This is a placebo-controlled study evaluating the effects of rosiglitazone on functional brain activity and cognition in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT01238458
This study will recruit a total of 150 evaluable subjects (30 cognitively normal volunteers and 60 MCI(Mild cognitive impairment) and 60 AD(Alzheimer's disease), respectively) Each evaluable subject involved in this study must fulfill all the inclusion and exclusion criteria according the subject grouping.
 Safety measurement will be evaluated by medical history, vital signs, physical examinations, laboratory examinations and collecting of adverse events.
 This study is expected to be completed in a period of 3 years. This study will recruit a total of 150 evaluable subjects (30 cognitively normal volunteers and 60 MCI(Mild cognitive impairment) and 60 AD(Alzheimer's disease), respectively) Each evaluable subject involved in this study must fulfill all the inclusion and exclusion criteria according the subject grouping.
 Safety measurement will be evaluated by medical history, vital signs, physical examinations, laboratory examinations and collecting of adverse events.
 This study is expected to be completed in a period of 3 years.

>>NCT01574456
The main aim of the present study is to improve our understanding of the role of blood-brain barrier function in dementia of the Alzheimer's type. The investigators hypothesize that microvascular dysfunction - more specifically "cerebral perfusion and blood-brain barrier leakage" - is a determinant of cognitive decline and cortical atrophy in Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02017340
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an ever-increasing public health concern among the aging population and is the most common form of dementia affecting more than 15 million individuals worldwide and around 5 million Europeans. The direct and indirect costs of AD and other dementias amount to more than 440000 million each year (www.alz.org, 2010).
 Even modest therapeutic advances that delay disease onset and progression could significantly reduce the global burden of the disease and the level of care required by patients. While there are symptomatic-based drug therapies available for AD, these medications do not prevent the disease process itself. There is therefore an imperative to develop new treatments for AD that have disease modifying effects. This double-blind placebo controlled study will test the efficacy and safety of nilvadipine in 500 subjects with mild to moderate AD over a treatment period of 18 months. There is a strong scientific rationale for this study: Nilvadipine, a licensed calcium channel enhances A clearance from brain and restores cortical perfusion in mouse models of AD. Nilvadipine is safe and well tolerated in AD patients and clinical studies with this medication have shown stabilization of cognitive decline and reduced incidence of AD, pointing to both symptomatic and disease modifying benefits. Male and female patients with mild to moderate AD aged between 50 and 90 with a range of medical morbidities and frailty will be included in the study. If this trial is successful, nilvadipine would represent an advance in the treatment of AD patients and would have a major impact on the health and social care costs incurred in Europe by this neurodegenerative disorder. Furthermore, the creation of the NILVAD network will support future clinical trials and research innovation in AD across Europe. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an ever-increasing public health concern among the aging population and is the most common form of dementia affecting more than 15 million individuals worldwide and around 5 million Europeans. The direct and indirect costs of AD and other dementias amount to more than 440000 million each year (www.alz.org, 2010).
 Even modest therapeutic advances that delay disease onset and progression could significantly reduce the global burden of the disease and the level of care required by patients. While there are symptomatic-based drug therapies available for AD, these medications do not prevent the disease process itself. There is therefore an imperative to develop new treatments for AD that have disease modifying effects. This double-blind placebo controlled study will test the efficacy and safety of nilvadipine in 500 subjects with mild to moderate AD over a treatment period of 18 months. There is a strong scientific rationale for this study: Nilvadipine, a licensed calcium channel enhances A clearance from brain and restores cortical perfusion in mouse models of AD. Nilvadipine is safe and well tolerated in AD patients and clinical studies with this medication have shown stabilization of cognitive decline and reduced incidence of AD, pointing to both symptomatic and disease modifying benefits. Male and female patients with mild to moderate AD aged between 50 and 90 with a range of medical morbidities and frailty will be included in the study. If this trial is successful, nilvadipine would represent an advance in the treatment of AD patients and would have a major impact on the health and social care costs incurred in Europe by this neurodegenerative disorder. Furthermore, the creation of the NILVAD network will support future clinical trials and research innovation in AD across Europe.

>>NCT00369603
The purpose of this study is to determine whether standard medications approved for Alzheimer's disease treatment differ in their action on brain functioning and whether any observed brain activity differences as result of treatment are associated with particular patterns of dementia improvement or reduced decline. The purpose of this study is to determine whether standard medications approved for Alzheimer's disease treatment differ in their action on brain functioning and whether any observed brain activity differences as result of treatment are associated with particular patterns of dementia improvement or reduced decline.

>>NCT01565343
This study will test if two AV-45 PET scans up to 4 weeks apart in AD subjects and healthy volunteers provide the same results. The study will also test two different AV-45 injection methods in a small subgroup of enrolled AD subjects (slow vs. fast bolus group).

>>NCT00898807
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of citalopram for agitation in Alzheimer's dementia. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of citalopram for agitation in Alzheimer's dementia.

>>NCT02360657
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety, tolerability and effect of JNJ-54861911 on level of amyloid-beta in Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) and plasma following 4 weeks of treatment in Japanese participants asymptomatic at risk for Alzheimer Dementia (ARAD) at the intended target dose range. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety, tolerability and effect of JNJ-54861911 on level of amyloid-beta in Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) and plasma following 4 weeks of treatment in Japanese participants asymptomatic at risk for Alzheimer Dementia (ARAD) at the intended target dose range.

>>NCT00469456
The objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of memantine versus placebo on functional communication in patients with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02547818
This is a global Phase III, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study for subjects with evidence of early AD. The protocol is designed to determine whether ALZT-OP1 combination treatment (ALZT-OP1a + ALZT-OP1b) will slow down, arrests or reverse cognitive and functional decline, in subjects with evidence of early stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). This is a global Phase III, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study for subjects with evidence of early AD. The protocol is designed to determine whether ALZT-OP1 combination treatment (ALZT-OP1a + ALZT-OP1b) will slow down, arrests or reverse cognitive and functional decline, in subjects with evidence of early stage Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT02471196
This study evaluates the effect of ORM-12741 on agitation/aggression symptoms in Alzheimer's disease. Two thirds of the patients will receive ORM-12741 and one third will receive placebo. This study evaluates the effect of ORM-12741 on agitation/aggression symptoms in Alzheimer's disease. Two thirds of the patients will receive ORM-12741 and one third will receive placebo.

>>NCT00702143
Evaluate 18F-AV-45 positron emission tomography (PET) imaging for distinguishing healthy control subjects, from subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or Mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

>>NCT00064870
The purpose of the Alzheimer's Disease Genetics Study is to identify the genes that are responsible for causing Alzheimer's Disease (AD). One of the ways in which the risk factor genes for late onset AD can be investigated is by identifying and collecting genetic material from families with multiple members diagnosed with AD or dementia. The purpose of the Alzheimer's Disease Genetics Study is to identify the genes that are responsible for causing Alzheimer's Disease (AD). One of the ways in which the risk factor genes for late onset AD can be investigated is by identifying and collecting genetic material from families with multiple members diagnosed with AD or dementia.

>>NCT01565291
A preliminary study to test how florbetapir F 18 (18F-AV-45) acts in the brains and bodies of healthy elderly people and patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) by using a positron emission tomography (PET) scanner.

>>NCT01294540
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of E2609 when administered as single doses to healthy adult volunteers and healthy elderly subjects. The study will consist of 2 parts:(1) a single dose in healthy adult volunteers, at doses up to 800 mg or the maximum dose that can be tolerated, (2) a single dose of 50 mg in healthy elderly volunteers. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of E2609 when administered as single doses to healthy adult volunteers and healthy elderly subjects. The study will consist of 2 parts:(1) a single dose in healthy adult volunteers, at doses up to 800 mg or the maximum dose that can be tolerated, (2) a single dose of 50 mg in healthy elderly volunteers.

>>NCT01316562
The purpose of this study is to determine the predictive value of standardized cognitive tests performed in health examination centres for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders among adults aged 65 years and older with a subjective memory complaint. The purpose of this study is to determine the predictive value of standardized cognitive tests performed in health examination centres for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders among adults aged 65 years and older with a subjective memory complaint.

>>NCT02336360
This study will obtain data from urine in subjects administered 18F-AV-1451 in an Avid-sponsored study to augment the calculation of radiation dosimetry estimates.

>>NCT02621606
The purpose of this open-label, 3-part study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of [11C]MK-6884 as a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging agent for quantifying muscarinic 4 (M4) positive allosteric modulator (PAM) receptor density in brain regions of interest. The study will enroll healthy participants (Parts I and II) and participants with Alzheimer's Disease (AD)(Part III). The primary efficacy hypothesis is that the average intra-subject test-retest (T-RT) variability of tracer uptake in brain regions of interest is <=20%.

>>NCT02546310
To determine if treatment with HTL0009936 will lead to changes in neural activity, measured using the fMRI BOLD signal and ASL, in brain areas that are associated with spatial and working memory, learning and executive functioning.

>>NCT00585572
The Wisconsin Brain Donor Program (WBDP) stores brain and other tissues/samples (e.g. blood and CSF) from deceased individuals who have participated in longitudinal research studies, as well as other select participants. These individuals have donated their tissues in order to aid scientific research. Through the collection of central and peripheral nervous tissues as well as (in select cases) skeletal muscle tissue, the WBDP strives to advance the knowledge of diseases of memory disorders, such as Alzheimer's Disease. Brain donations are needed from healthy individuals, as well as those affected by diseases of the nervous system. The Wisconsin Brain Donor Program (WBDP) stores brain and other tissues/samples (e.g. blood and CSF) from deceased individuals who have participated in longitudinal research studies, as well as other select participants. These individuals have donated their tissues in order to aid scientific research. Through the collection of central and peripheral nervous tissues as well as (in select cases) skeletal muscle tissue, the WBDP strives to advance the knowledge of diseases of memory disorders, such as Alzheimer's Disease. Brain donations are needed from healthy individuals, as well as those affected by diseases of the nervous system.

>>NCT02467413
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of BAC patients with Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia.The secondary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety of BAC patients with Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of BAC patients with Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia.The secondary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety of BAC patients with Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia.

>>NCT00468897
The present pharmacokinetic study is designed to compare bioavailability and assess bioequivalence of two Rosiglitazone XR formulations produced at two different sites.Both formulations will be tested in fasting healthy volunteers.

>>NCT00066157
This is a 15-month study to determine the effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy in improving memory and the ability to live independently in postmenopausal women with Alzheimer's disease. This is a 15-month study to determine the effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy in improving memory and the ability to live independently in postmenopausal women with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01594541
This retrospective analysis of de-identified data from 700 charts of consecutive patients from this patient population is to investigate the prevalence of hyperhomocysteinemia and associated metabolic abnormalities in this naturalistic grouping of patients with various stages of cognitive loss and diagnosed with various types of dementia. This retrospective analysis of de-identified data from 700 charts of consecutive patients from this patient population is to investigate the prevalence of hyperhomocysteinemia and associated metabolic abnormalities in this naturalistic grouping of patients with various stages of cognitive loss and diagnosed with various types of dementia.

>>NCT00954252
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of single oral doses of CHF 5074 in young healthy male volunteers. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of single oral doses of CHF 5074 in young healthy male volunteers.

>>NCT00119561
The primary goal of the study is documentation of effectiveness of telephone support groups to reduce caregiver burden and stress. Caregivers who participate in intervention (Telephone Support) should experience lower levels of stress, burden and health care utilization (lower use of psychotropic drugs, fewer scheduled/unscheduled medical visits, lower rates of institutionalization, more efficient use of time in managing care recipient problems) compared to those caregivers in Usual Care. The primary goal of the study is documentation of effectiveness of telephone support groups to reduce caregiver burden and stress. Caregivers who participate in intervention (Telephone Support) should experience lower levels of stress, burden and health care utilization (lower use of psychotropic drugs, fewer scheduled/unscheduled medical visits, lower rates of institutionalization, more efficient use of time in managing care recipient problems) compared to those caregivers in Usual Care.

>>NCT02198586
The purpose of this study is to investigate the influence of the APOE genotype on brain morphology, function and metabolism, related to other factors such as cognitive reserve, cognition and episodic memory, in subjects at greater risk of developing AD. The purpose of this study is to investigate the influence of the APOE genotype on brain morphology, function and metabolism, related to other factors such as cognitive reserve, cognition and episodic memory, in subjects at greater risk of developing AD.

>>NCT01320527
Based on prior published pilot studies, the investigators have initiated a larger, multi-site placebo-controlled clinical trial with Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and individuals diagnosed with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), with the hopes of (1) confirming (or denying) the above promising clinical findings and (2) determining whether or not our formulation can delay MCI "conversion" to AD. Based on prior published pilot studies, the investigators have initiated a larger, multi-site placebo-controlled clinical trial with Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and individuals diagnosed with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), with the hopes of (1) confirming (or denying) the above promising clinical findings and (2) determining whether or not our formulation can delay MCI "conversion" to AD.

>>NCT01409694
The purpose of this study is to compare the effect after 24 weeks of the oral intake of vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) with the effect of a placebo on the change of cognitive performance in patients suffering from moderate Alzheimer's disease or related disorders (ADRD) and receiving memantine. The purpose of this study is to compare the effect after 24 weeks of the oral intake of vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) with the effect of a placebo on the change of cognitive performance in patients suffering from moderate Alzheimer's disease or related disorders (ADRD) and receiving memantine.

>>NCT02438202
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) induces a cerebral seizure by electrical stimulation under general anesthesia and muscle relaxation, is regarded as a highly efficient (for specific and severe psychiatric disorders) and extremely safe modern treatment option.
 Alzheimers disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder which is characterized by progressive cognitive deterioration accompanied by declining activities of daily living, by a variety of behavioral disturbances and by neuropsychiatric symptoms. The clinical progression of disease can be delayed by pharmaceutical therapies like acetylcholinesterase inhibition (e.g. rivastigmine) for 6 to 12 months at most.
 Along with the well-known biomarkers of AD (A- and tau-proteins) a lower brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) level is since recently being considered as a negative predictor for the further disease course. In animal experimental studies it was possible to arrest the disease progression with the aid of neurotrophic substances. Many single studies but also a number of meta-analyses show primary gray matter atrophy in hippocampal, parahippocampal and medial temporal brain regions.
 Strikingly, ECT yields exact opposite effects to those caused by AD: an ECT series leads to an increase of serum BDNF-levels in patients. Parallel to this observation evidence exists for gray matter volume gain after an ECT series, especially for the hippocampus.
 There is sufficient clinical experience regarding the use of ECT in AD-patients, mainly on the basis of following indications: a) affective disorders and b) behavioral disturbances. A positive effect of ECT on the symptoms of agitation and aggression was assessed in AD patients alongside with a very good tolerability.
 To investigate the potential salutary effects of ECT on AD the investigators designed a pilot study with the following concept: Patients with a confirmed AD diagnosis and preexisting stable antidementia medication over at least 6 months will receive a modified maintenance ECT over a total of 27 weeks.
 In the proposed pilot study, the investigators hypothesize that cognitive functioning of AD patients will improve significantly and independently from affective symptoms, when initial and final examinations are compared. The affirmation of the hypothesis would provide not only further insight into the mechanism of action of ECT but also a very important reference point for the development of new treatment options for a so-far incurable disease. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) induces a cerebral seizure by electrical stimulation under general anesthesia and muscle relaxation, is regarded as a highly efficient (for specific and severe psychiatric disorders) and extremely safe modern treatment option.
 Alzheimers disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder which is characterized by progressive cognitive deterioration accompanied by declining activities of daily living, by a variety of behavioral disturbances and by neuropsychiatric symptoms. The clinical progression of disease can be delayed by pharmaceutical therapies like acetylcholinesterase inhibition (e.g. rivastigmine) for 6 to 12 months at most.
 Along with the well-known biomarkers of AD (A- and tau-proteins) a lower brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) level is since recently being considered as a negative predictor for the further disease course. In animal experimental studies it was possible to arrest the disease progression with the aid of neurotrophic substances. Many single studies but also a number of meta-analyses show primary gray matter atrophy in hippocampal, parahippocampal and medial temporal brain regions.
 Strikingly, ECT yields exact opposite effects to those caused by AD: an ECT series leads to an increase of serum BDNF-levels in patients. Parallel to this observation evidence exists for gray matter volume gain after an ECT series, especially for the hippocampus.
 There is sufficient clinical experience regarding the use of ECT in AD-patients, mainly on the basis of following indications: a) affective disorders and b) behavioral disturbances. A positive effect of ECT on the symptoms of agitation and aggression was assessed in AD patients alongside with a very good tolerability.
 To investigate the potential salutary effects of ECT on AD the investigators designed a pilot study with the following concept: Patients with a confirmed AD diagnosis and preexisting stable antidementia medication over at least 6 months will receive a modified maintenance ECT over a total of 27 weeks.
 In the proposed pilot study, the investigators hypothesize that cognitive functioning of AD patients will improve significantly and independently from affective symptoms, when initial and final examinations are compared. The affirmation of the hypothesis would provide not only further insight into the mechanism of action of ECT but also a very important reference point for the development of new treatment options for a so-far incurable disease.

>>NCT00799786
The workshop is a 6-week online workshop for caregivers of people with traumatic brain injury, post traumatic stress disorder or dementia. It is being conducted jointly by the Stanford Patient Education Research Center and the VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System and is supported by a grant from the Department of Veterans Affairs, Patient Care Services, Office of Care Management and Social Work.
 The goal of the study is to determine whether an online caregiver education and support workshop can have lasting beneficial effects in helping caregivers improve their self-management of health skills, stress and improve their caregiving abilities. The workshop is a 6-week online workshop for caregivers of people with traumatic brain injury, post traumatic stress disorder or dementia. It is being conducted jointly by the Stanford Patient Education Research Center and the VA Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System and is supported by a grant from the Department of Veterans Affairs, Patient Care Services, Office of Care Management and Social Work.
 The goal of the study is to determine whether an online caregiver education and support workshop can have lasting beneficial effects in helping caregivers improve their self-management of health skills, stress and improve their caregiving abilities.

>>NCT00831298
The purpose of this study is to study circadian rhythms or daily cycles of sleep, wake and activity. The investigators hope to learn how disturbed sleep in Alzheimer's Disease relates to changes in activity cycles and how sleep disturbances may affect your daytime alertness.
 This project selects patients suffering from memory problems or voluntary to be in our Control Group. There are three parts to this study: Sleep Diaries, Behavioral Questionnaire and Activity Recordings.

>>NCT01297140
Alzheimer's disease is characterised by a loss of cognitive functions and behavioural problems as set out under the term "Behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD)". The impact of BPSD in everyday life has heavy consequences for the patient and their family. The precocity of incidence, the frequency and the intensity of the BPSD are associated with a rapid decline in cognitive functions, an alteration in the activities of daily living and a decrease in the quality of life for both the patient and the helper, an increased risk of hospitalisation and of institutionalisation as well as an increase in the cost to the health system. A greater understanding of the risk factors for the occurence of the BPSD would better allow the detection of patients who are particularly at risk for BPSD, to anticipate the crisis situations by proposing early and adapted care and to better target the medicinal therapies. Certain observational arguments or results of retrospective studies speak in favour of the role of the basic personality in the occurence of BPSD in Alzheimer's disease. The investigators propose to clarify this role through a prospective study.

>>NCT02787746
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of donepezil in treatment of AD patients in China and also investigate the relationship between Apo-E gene type with adverse events of donepezil. This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of donepezil in treatment of AD patients in China and also investigate the relationship between Apo-E gene type with adverse events of donepezil.

>>NCT00401167
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia and is characterized by both cognitive and behavioural symptoms ("Behavioural and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia"; BPSD). To date, there are only modestly effective treatments for BPSD and these treatments are associated with an increased risk of mortality in elderly dementia patients. We plan to study whether treatment with medication memantine improves BPSD in severe AD patients. Thirty-two AD patients with significant BPSD, including agitation and aggression, will be treated for three months with memantine. Assessments of behavioural symptoms and global clinical outcomes will be completed after one, two and three months of treatment. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia and is characterized by both cognitive and behavioural symptoms ("Behavioural and Psychological Symptoms of Dementia"; BPSD). To date, there are only modestly effective treatments for BPSD and these treatments are associated with an increased risk of mortality in elderly dementia patients. We plan to study whether treatment with medication memantine improves BPSD in severe AD patients. Thirty-two AD patients with significant BPSD, including agitation and aggression, will be treated for three months with memantine. Assessments of behavioural symptoms and global clinical outcomes will be completed after one, two and three months of treatment.

>>NCT01746498
The current study is planed to compare the efficacy of real (anodal and cathodal) vs sham transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) applied over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) on cognitive functions and cortical excitability of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD).
 Thirty three with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients (diagnosis of probable AD according to the criteria of the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke Alzheimer Disease and Related Disorders Association [NINCDS-ADRDA] were included in this study) were randomly classified into one of three groups (eleven for each group). The first group received anodal tDCS over left DLPFC and 2rd group received cathodal tDCS on the left DLPFC and the 3rd group received sham tDCS stimulation, daily for 10 consecutive days (5 days/week for 2 weeks). Minimental State Examination (MMSE), psychometric assessment for cognitive functions (MMSE, Wechsler memory scale, Wechsler adult Intelligent scale) were assessed before, after 10th sessions and then after 1 and 2 month. Cortical excitability was assessed in both hemispheres before and after the end of sessions. Neurophysiological evaluations included resting and active motor threshold (rMT and aMT) and cortical silent period (CSP).
 At the time of recruitment, none of the patients taking antidepressants or neuroleptic, sedative-hypnotic drugs for at least two weeks before the assessment. All participants or their caregivers will give informed consent before participation in the test and after full explanation of the study protocol.
 Outcome: The real group received (anodal and cathodal) tDCS are expected to have more improvement on cognitive functions compared to sham tDCS group. tDCS is considered new adjuvant non pharmacological therapeutic tool for management of AD patients with mild to moderate degree dementia.

>>NCT02562989
The purpose of this 2-part open-label study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of [18F]MK-6240 as a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging agent for quantifying brain burden of neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) pathology. Brain NFT deposition is a pathology finding in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and density of brain NFTs has been shown to correlate with severity of cognitive impairment in AD. The objectives of the study include performing the following with respect to [18F]MK-6240 administered as a PET imaging agent: assess safety and tolerability; determine radiation safety profile; determine optimal imaging protocol parameters for quantification of brain NFTs in AD; compare tracer binding in brain PET scans from participants with AD of varying severity, participants with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and healthy elderly participants; and evaluate intra-subject test-retest (T-RT) variability of tracer uptake in brain regions of interest. The primary efficacy hypothesis is that the intra-subject T-RT variability in brain regions associated with NFT deposition in AD is <=10%.

>>NCT01438060
The primary objective of the study is to compare the efficacy of aripiprazole with placebo in patients with psychosis associated with Alzheimer's dementia. The primary objective of the study is to compare the efficacy of aripiprazole with placebo in patients with psychosis associated with Alzheimer's dementia.

>>NCT02670993
Alzheimer Disease (AD), characterized by cognitive and psycho-behavioral troubles, concerns essentially 65 years old and older patients. Antalgic and psychotropic treatments have adverse effects in old people and have to be used carefully. To improve the pain support and limit the drug consumption, it is possible to perform therapies without drugs. Among them, musical intervention represents an interesting complementary support, to deal with physical and moral pain in AD. Alzheimer Disease (AD), characterized by cognitive and psycho-behavioral troubles, concerns essentially 65 years old and older patients. Antalgic and psychotropic treatments have adverse effects in old people and have to be used carefully. To improve the pain support and limit the drug consumption, it is possible to perform therapies without drugs. Among them, musical intervention represents an interesting complementary support, to deal with physical and moral pain in AD.

>>NCT02697721
The purpose of this study is to examine if a psycho-educational intervention for caregivers of patients with dementia will decrease caregiver burden, increase caregiver physical activity and decrease the reporting of behavioral and psychological symptoms of the person with dementia.

>>NCT02220738
This study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of multiple doses of ABT-957 in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00319891
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of computer-based training program ("HiFi-AD") on the memory and cognitive abilities of individuals diagnosed with mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of computer-based training program ("HiFi-AD") on the memory and cognitive abilities of individuals diagnosed with mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT01638884
The purpose of this study is to investigate prospective merory (memory of intentions) in healthy controls and in aMCI (amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment) and AD (Alzheimer Disease) patients.

>>NCT02648672
This is a randomized double-blind (investigator and subject blinded), placebo controlled ascending single dose study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of BPN14770 in healthy male and female subjects. Each subject will be randomized to receive either a single dose of BPN14770 or placebo. This is a randomized double-blind (investigator and subject blinded), placebo controlled ascending single dose study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of BPN14770 in healthy male and female subjects. Each subject will be randomized to receive either a single dose of BPN14770 or placebo.

>>NCT02013518
A total of 200 home dwelling participants, who fulfil the inclusion criteria, Alzheimer's disease, will be recruited from three hospitals in Norway.
 The intervention is based on a standardized manual and consists of 11 weekly one-hour sessions, which are organized into six thematic modules.
 The content of each session is specified by a treatment manual, which additionally consists of worksheets, suggestions for homework in between sessions and letters to the caregivers (the German manual: Werheid & Thne-Otto, 2010; the Norwegian manual: Ulstein, Gordner & Tonga, not published). The treatment will be conducted by experienced health staff (nurses, psychologist, doctors) with formal training in Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and knowledge about Alzheimer's Disease. Furthermore, the health staff will be familiarised with the manual before study inception, participate in a two-day training seminar and will regularly be supervised.
 The control condition will be offered treatment as usual at the participating the memory clinics.
 The hypothesis is that the participants in the intervention group will report less depression and increased self efficacy as compared with the control group.
 We conducted a pilot study with 10 patients, 5 in each group, from March to June 2013 to examine the feasibility of the study protocol and do want to include these patients in the study population.

>>NCT02817906
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study comparing the efficacy and safety of ITI-007 versus placebo administered orally once daily in the treatment of agitation in patients with dementia, including Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00622713
This study is designed to confirm the efficacy, the tolerability, the patient compliance and the caregiver satisfaction with rivastigmine target patch size 10 cm^2 in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease (Mini-Mental State Examination 10-26) in the community setting.

>>NCT01428453
The study is designed to investigate the effects of rilapladib on biomarkers related to the Alzheimer's disease and cognitive function. The study is designed to investigate the effects of rilapladib on biomarkers related to the Alzheimer's disease and cognitive function.

>>NCT00689637
The purpose of the study is to evaluate if AZD3480 and warfarin interact with each other or not, i.e. show the same or altered plasma concentration profiles when co-administered compared to administered alone.

>>NCT02841605
The close homology between the central and enteric nervous systems suggests that a disease process affecting the central nervous system could also involve its enteric counterpart. The investigators have recently shown in that the enteric neurons can be readily analyzed using routine colonic biopsies. This led us to propose that the enteric nervous system could represent a unique window to assess the neuropathology in living patients with a neurodegenerative disorder. The investigators have already used this approach to show that Parkinson's disease pathology was recapitulated in a single colonic biopsy. By contrast to Parkinson's disease, the detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology in the enteric neurons has so far failed. This may be due to the low number of human tissue samples in addition to the low sensitivity of the immunohistochemical methods that were used. The aim of the current research project will be therefore to reevaluate AD pathology in a large number of human colonic samples using both a morphological and biochemical approach .
 The enteric nervous system could represent a unique window to assess the neuropathology in living patients with AD. This might open the way to the development of novel AD biomarkers that will directly assess the neuropathological process.
 Main Aim : To Analyze the presence of beta-amyloid pathology in the enteric nervous system (ENS) in AD patients.
 Secondary Aim(s):.
 1. To analyze and describe the presence of tau in the enteric nervous system (ENS) in AD patients.
 2. To assess neuronal loss in submucosal tissue in AD patients.
 3. To examine Glia cells in the enteric nervous system in AD patients..

>>NCT01231295
The primary objective of this study is to characterize cerebral metabolism modifications using 18F-FDG PET technology and perfusion with 99MTC-ECD SPECT in patients with prodromal Alzheimer's Disease drawn from a high risk population. We also compare PET and SPECT imaging within this framework and search for optimal diagnostic thresholds.

>>NCT01334450
Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) for treatment of Alzheimer disease. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) for treatment of Alzheimer disease.

>>NCT01018875
Efficacy and safety study of ABT-288 in adults with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01978327
GSK2647544 is an orally available, selective inhibitor of Lp PLA2 that is being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The current study is a single-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, 4-cohort study to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of repeat doses of GSK2647544. Cohorts 1, 2 and 3 will evaluate escalating doses of GSK2647544 in young healthy volunteers for 7 days, 7 days and 14 days, respectively. Cohort 4 will evaluate repeat doses of GSK2647544 in healthy elderly volunteers for 14 days. Additionally, Cohorts 1 and 3 will include an assessment of potential drug-drug interaction with simvastatin to examine CYP3A4 inhibition by GSK2647544.

>>NCT00506415
The purpose of this study was to support the optimal use of rivastigmine patch in long-term treatment of Alzheimer's Disease in patients demonstrating functional and cognitive decline at the target maintenance dose of rivastigmine patch 10 cm^2.

>>NCT02253732
The purpose of this study is to determine specific changes in muscle secretory profile (myokines, miRNA) in association with neurodegenerative disease progression and metabolic dysfunction. Next the investigators would like to determine the shift in the muscle secretory activity induced by regular exercise intervention, which the investigators think could be translated into the beneficial changes in clinical phenotypes, determined by neuroimaging, cognitive function tests and metabolic phenotyping. The purpose of this study is to determine specific changes in muscle secretory profile (myokines, miRNA) in association with neurodegenerative disease progression and metabolic dysfunction. Next the investigators would like to determine the shift in the muscle secretory activity induced by regular exercise intervention, which the investigators think could be translated into the beneficial changes in clinical phenotypes, determined by neuroimaging, cognitive function tests and metabolic phenotyping.

>>NCT02557464
The objective of this study is to identify early and accurate semantics markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by using two types of methods. First, the investigator will evaluate semantic processing of patients with AD or related disorders which will be compared to age matched controls by taking neuropsychological tests. Then, the investigator will analyze the effect of contextual word predictability on eye movements in reading sentences with the help of the same participants by using an eye tracker. Both of these methods will be used twice with a time interval of 6 months. The objective of this study is to identify early and accurate semantics markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by using two types of methods. First, the investigator will evaluate semantic processing of patients with AD or related disorders which will be compared to age matched controls by taking neuropsychological tests. Then, the investigator will analyze the effect of contextual word predictability on eye movements in reading sentences with the help of the same participants by using an eye tracker. Both of these methods will be used twice with a time interval of 6 months.

>>NCT00294307
Aim 1. To compare across three hospital sites the effects on health and cost outcomes observed by the following three interventions, each designed to enhance adaptation and improve outcomes of hospitalized cognitively impaired elders and their caregivers:.
 1. augmented standard care (ASC) - standard hospital and, if referred, home care plus early identification of CI during the patients' hospitalization by trained registered nurses (RNs) with immediate feedback to patients' primary nurses, attending physicians and discharge planners;.
 2. resource nurse care (RNC) - standard hospital and, if referred, home care plus early identification of CI during the patient's hospitalization by trained RNs and hospital care by RNs trained in the use of expert clinical guidelines developed to enhance the care management of hospitalized cognitively impaired elders and to facilitate their transition from hospital to home; or,.
 3. advanced practice nurse care (APNC) - standard hospital care plus transitional (hospital to home) care substituting for standard home care and provided by APNs with advanced training in the management of CI patients using an evidence-based protocol designed specifically for this patient group and their caregivers.
 [H1] We hypothesize that health and cost outcomes with APNC, a comprehensive intervention designed to meet the unique needs of cognitively impaired older adults hospitalized for an acute medical or surgical event and their caregivers will be associated, relative to health and cost outcomes with ASC and RNC, with improvement in patient, caregiver and cost outcomes.
 [H2] We hypothesize that improvements in patient, caregiver and cost outcomes observed for the RNC group will be greater than those observed for the ASC group.
 Aim 2. To compare within each site and over time, health and cost outcomes (identified in Aim 1) from patients treated with either ASC or RNC, both relatively lower intensity interventions, with the outcomes of patients at the same site observed after switching to APNC, a high intensity intervention.
 [H3] We hypothesize that compared to patients receiving the ASC or the RNC interventions, patients at the same site will have improved patient, caregiver and cost outcomes after the site switches to APNC.
 [H4] We hypothesize that patient, caregiver and cost outcomes achieved by the groups receiving APNC interventions at T1 and T2 will be similar. Aim 1. To compare across three hospital sites the effects on health and cost outcomes observed by the following three interventions, each designed to enhance adaptation and improve outcomes of hospitalized cognitively impaired elders and their caregivers:.
 1. augmented standard care (ASC) - standard hospital and, if referred, home care plus early identification of CI during the patients' hospitalization by trained registered nurses (RNs) with immediate feedback to patients' primary nurses, attending physicians and discharge planners;.
 2. resource nurse care (RNC) - standard hospital and, if referred, home care plus early identification of CI during the patient's hospitalization by trained RNs and hospital care by RNs trained in the use of expert clinical guidelines developed to enhance the care management of hospitalized cognitively impaired elders and to facilitate their transition from hospital to home; or,.
 3. advanced practice nurse care (APNC) - standard hospital care plus transitional (hospital to home) care substituting for standard home care and provided by APNs with advanced training in the management of CI patients using an evidence-based protocol designed specifically for this patient group and their caregivers.
 [H1] We hypothesize that health and cost outcomes with APNC, a comprehensive intervention designed to meet the unique needs of cognitively impaired older adults hospitalized for an acute medical or surgical event and their caregivers will be associated, relative to health and cost outcomes with ASC and RNC, with improvement in patient, caregiver and cost outcomes.
 [H2] We hypothesize that improvements in patient, caregiver and cost outcomes observed for the RNC group will be greater than those observed for the ASC group.
 Aim 2. To compare within each site and over time, health and cost outcomes (identified in Aim 1) from patients treated with either ASC or RNC, both relatively lower intensity interventions, with the outcomes of patients at the same site observed after switching to APNC, a high intensity intervention.
 [H3] We hypothesize that compared to patients receiving the ASC or the RNC interventions, patients at the same site will have improved patient, caregiver and cost outcomes after the site switches to APNC.
 [H4] We hypothesize that patient, caregiver and cost outcomes achieved by the groups receiving APNC interventions at T1 and T2 will be similar.

>>NCT01297218
The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and the tolerability of NEUROSTEM-AD (Human Umbilical Cord Blood Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells) and to assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). This study is also to investigate the efficacy of this study drug in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type. The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and the tolerability of NEUROSTEM-AD (Human Umbilical Cord Blood Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells) and to assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). This study is also to investigate the efficacy of this study drug in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT00563732
Primary: To evaluate the effects of multiple doses of lecozotan SR on the PK profile of a single dose of digoxin in healthy adult subjects.
 Secondary: To assess the safety and tolerability of the coadministration of lecozotan SR and digoxin.

>>NCT02792179
This is a longitudinal, follow-up study in participants with Alzheimer's disease (AD) who previously participated in study BP29409 (NCT02187627). This study is designed to assess the longitudinal change of Tau pathology in the brain of participants with AD using the PET ligand [18F]RO6958948 and to assess the safety and tolerability of PET ligand.

>>NCT02471833
The purpose of this study is to determine if Telmisartan, an FDA approved blood pressure medication, may also have beneficial effects on Alzheimer's disease prevention in African Americans, who are at high risk for Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine if Telmisartan, an FDA approved blood pressure medication, may also have beneficial effects on Alzheimer's disease prevention in African Americans, who are at high risk for Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00733785
The present pharmacokinetic study is designed to further characterise the pharmacokinetics of the RSG XR formulation and aims to assess dose proportionality, strength equivalence, the food effect and the pharmacokinetics after repeat dosing. The present pharmacokinetic study is designed to further characterise the pharmacokinetics of the RSG XR formulation and aims to assess dose proportionality, strength equivalence, the food effect and the pharmacokinetics after repeat dosing.

>>NCT02463084
This study compares the effects of a one-month diet high in saturated fat (SF), glycemic index (GI) and salt (Na+) to a diet low in these nutritional parameters on memory and other cognitive functions, on MRI measures of brain structure, function and perfusion, as well as on blood and cerebrospinal fluid levels of amyloid-beta (A), insulin, lipids (total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, oxidized LDL and triglycerides), cytokines, apolipoprotein E (ApoE), apolipoprotein J, cortisol, soluble low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (sLRP) and glucose in middle-aged adults (45-65 years of age) with normal cognition or mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT00321971
This study evaluates the effectiveness of a problem-solving training program in preventing depression in the spouses or family caregivers of persons with mild cognitive impairment or early dementia. This study evaluates the effectiveness of a problem-solving training program in preventing depression in the spouses or family caregivers of persons with mild cognitive impairment or early dementia.

>>NCT02040987
A thorough QT study of AZD3293 A thorough QT study of AZD3293.

>>NCT02205424
Stroke and dementia are two of the most common and disabling conditions worldwide, responsible for an enormous and growing burden of disease. There is increasing awareness that the two conditions are linked, with cognitive impairment and dementia common after stroke, vascular dementia accounting for about one-fifth of all dementia cases and recent evidence on the contribution of vascular risk factors to Alzheimer's disease. Yet we still know very little about whether brain volume loss - a hallmark of dementia - occurs after stroke and whether such atrophy is related to cognitive decline. The aim of this research is to establish whether stroke patients have reductions in brain volume in the first three years post-stroke compared to control subjects and whether regional and global brain volume change is associated with post-stroke dementia in order to elucidate potential causal mechanisms (including genetic markers, amyloid deposition and vascular risk factors). We hypothesise that stroke patients will exhibit greater brain volume loss than comparable cohorts of stroke-free controls and further, that stroke patients who develop dementia will exhibit greater global and regional brain volume loss than those who do not dement. An understanding of whether stroke is neurodegenerative and in which patients, may be used to help guide the early delivery of disease-modifying therapies.

>>NCT01560585
This is an open label study of isotretinoin, a medication which is FDA approved for treatment of other conditions to determine initial safety in Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01453569
The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether sodium oligo-mannurarate capsule is effective and safe in the treatment of mild to moderate alzheimer' disease and to determine the best therapeutic dose of sodium oligo-mannurarate capsule. The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether sodium oligo-mannurarate capsule is effective and safe in the treatment of mild to moderate alzheimer' disease and to determine the best therapeutic dose of sodium oligo-mannurarate capsule.

>>NCT01795339
This is a two-part multiple dose study in healthy male and female (of non-child bearing potential) elderly volunteers and in Alzheimer's disease patients, to assess the safety, effects on the body and blood, CSF and urine drug levels of AZD3293. AZD3293 is being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease This is a two-part multiple dose study in healthy male and female (of non-child bearing potential) elderly volunteers and in Alzheimer's disease patients, to assess the safety, effects on the body and blood, CSF and urine drug levels of AZD3293. AZD3293 is being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00759863
The LifeZig Project is a research study of a new reminiscence activity for individuals with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and other types of dementia, based on the LifeZig system, with personalized video channels containing old photographs and music on television.
 The goal of the LifeZig study is to enhance the quality of life for dementia patients and their families/caregivers, decrease the burden of care and contribute to positive interaction between dementia patients and families/caregivers. The LifeZig Project is a research study of a new reminiscence activity for individuals with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and other types of dementia, based on the LifeZig system, with personalized video channels containing old photographs and music on television.
 The goal of the LifeZig study is to enhance the quality of life for dementia patients and their families/caregivers, decrease the burden of care and contribute to positive interaction between dementia patients and families/caregivers.

>>NCT01569516
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Octohydroaminoacridine Succinate tablets and find the optimal dose in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Octohydroaminoacridine Succinate tablets and find the optimal dose in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02127476
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of KHK6640, given as a single dose and as multiple doses in patients with Prodromal Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or Mild to Moderate AD.

>>NCT01747213
Background:.
 - Alzheimer s disease (AD) is a brain disease that impairs memory, cognitive abilities and the ability to function independently. It is the most common cause of dementia in older people. It is caused by abnormal proteins in the brain that affect how neurons communicate with each other. Researchers are looking for drugs that can slow down the disease or treat its symptoms. One drug, called bisnorcymserine (BNC), may help improve brain function and symptoms in people with AD. BNC is designed to block a chemical that affects how neurons communicate with each other. Researchers want to see how BNC works in healthy older volunteers.
 Objectives:.
 - To look at how the body processes bisnorcymserine taken by mouth and how safe it is for healthy older volunteers.
 Eligibility:.
 - Healthy volunteers at least 55 years of age.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be screened with a physical exam, medical history and blood and urine tests.
 - Within 3 weeks from the screening visit, participants will come to the National Institute on Aging clinical unit for a 2-night stay. On the morning of the second day, they will take either a BNC capsule or a placebo. They will not know which tablet they are taking.
 - Blood samples will be collected frequently throughout the second and third days of the study visit. The last blood sample will be collected about 32 hours after taking the study capsule. Participants will have heart function tests and other exams during the visit. Once the tests are done, they will leave the clinical center.
 - Participants will have a final follow-up visit about 1 week after leaving the clinical center. Background:.
 - Alzheimer s disease (AD) is a brain disease that impairs memory, cognitive abilities and the ability to function independently. It is the most common cause of dementia in older people. It is caused by abnormal proteins in the brain that affect how neurons communicate with each other. Researchers are looking for drugs that can slow down the disease or treat its symptoms. One drug, called bisnorcymserine (BNC), may help improve brain function and symptoms in people with AD. BNC is designed to block a chemical that affects how neurons communicate with each other. Researchers want to see how BNC works in healthy older volunteers.
 Objectives:.
 - To look at how the body processes bisnorcymserine taken by mouth and how safe it is for healthy older volunteers.
 Eligibility:.
 - Healthy volunteers at least 55 years of age.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be screened with a physical exam, medical history and blood and urine tests.
 - Within 3 weeks from the screening visit, participants will come to the National Institute on Aging clinical unit for a 2-night stay. On the morning of the second day, they will take either a BNC capsule or a placebo. They will not know which tablet they are taking.
 - Blood samples will be collected frequently throughout the second and third days of the study visit. The last blood sample will be collected about 32 hours after taking the study capsule. Participants will have heart function tests and other exams during the visit. Once the tests are done, they will leave the clinical center.
 - Participants will have a final follow-up visit about 1 week after leaving the clinical center.

>>NCT02051244
The purpose of this study is to determine whether by measuring changes in the thickness of the retinal nerve fibre layer (the photosensitive layer at the back of the eye) you could predict if someone would develop Alzheimer's disease in the future. The measurement is made by OCT (ocular coherence tomography), a noninvasive and relatively inexpensive test that uses light waves to scan the back of the eye. The purpose of this study is to determine whether by measuring changes in the thickness of the retinal nerve fibre layer (the photosensitive layer at the back of the eye) you could predict if someone would develop Alzheimer's disease in the future. The measurement is made by OCT (ocular coherence tomography), a noninvasive and relatively inexpensive test that uses light waves to scan the back of the eye.

>>NCT00422981
The purpose of this study is to find out if different doses of Investigational Drug are safe, tolerable and if they have an effect on Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). The purpose of this study is to find out if different doses of Investigational Drug are safe, tolerable and if they have an effect on Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).

>>NCT00001972
The main source of energy for the brain comes from a combination of oxygen and glucose (sugar). For brain cells to function normally they must receive a constant supply of these nutrients. As areas of the brain become more active blood flow into and out of these areas increase.
 In addition to oxygen and glucose, the brain uses chemical compounds known as phospholipids. These phospholipids make up the covering of nerve cells that assist in the transfer of information from cell to cell. Without phospholipids brain cell activity may become abnormal and cause problems in the nervous system.
 Certain diseases like Alzheimer's disease and brain tumors can affect blood flow to the brain and change the way the brain metabolizes phospholipids. In addition to diseases, changes in the brain occur with normal healthy aging.
 This study is designed to use PET scan to measure changes in blood flow and changes in phospholipid metabolism. Using this technique, researchers can improve their understanding of how certain diseases change the shape and function of the brain. The main source of energy for the brain comes from a combination of oxygen and glucose (sugar). For brain cells to function normally they must receive a constant supply of these nutrients. As areas of the brain become more active blood flow into and out of these areas increase.
 In addition to oxygen and glucose, the brain uses chemical compounds known as phospholipids. These phospholipids make up the covering of nerve cells that assist in the transfer of information from cell to cell. Without phospholipids brain cell activity may become abnormal and cause problems in the nervous system.
 Certain diseases like Alzheimer's disease and brain tumors can affect blood flow to the brain and change the way the brain metabolizes phospholipids. In addition to diseases, changes in the brain occur with normal healthy aging.
 This study is designed to use PET scan to measure changes in blood flow and changes in phospholipid metabolism. Using this technique, researchers can improve their understanding of how certain diseases change the shape and function of the brain.

>>NCT00580931
The purpose of this study is to determine whether nicotinamide or vitamin B3, is safe and effective in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine whether nicotinamide or vitamin B3, is safe and effective in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00001977
This study will examine whether enhancing the chemical acetylcholine in the brain can improve memory and attention. It will identify changes in brain function that occur during these cognitive tasks. Animal and human studies have shown that a decrease in acetylcholine may be responsible for some of the cognition deficits in Alzheimer's disease. Conversely, patients taking medications that slow the breakdown of this neurotransmitter have experienced improvements in memory.
 Normal volunteers and patients with Alzheimer's disease may be eligible for this study of functional brain imaging using positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These techniques can measure brain activity and identify brain regions involved in memory and attention. Candidates for this study will be screened with a medical and psychiatric history and a physical examination including blood tests, urinalysis, chest X-ray and electrocardiogram (ECG). Those enrolled will perform memory and attention tasks during PET and MRI studies. The cognition tasks will be repeated twice-once during infusion of saline (a fluid with no drug effect) through a catheter inserted into a blood vessel and again during infusion of physostigmine, a drug that delays the breakdown of acetylcholine. The PET procedure will be completed in one day; the MRI procedure will be done on two different days.
 During imaging, attention and memory tasks will be presented in short blocks of about 4-minutes duration. They will be repeated in sequence up to 10 times with a few minutes separation. Subjects will be shown pictures of faces or other visual stimuli and asked to decide whether the pictures are the same or different.
 Information gained from this study may increase knowledge about how acetylcholine affects the brain's response to memory and attention tasks and perhaps lead to better treatments for the cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease. This study will examine whether enhancing the chemical acetylcholine in the brain can improve memory and attention. It will identify changes in brain function that occur during these cognitive tasks. Animal and human studies have shown that a decrease in acetylcholine may be responsible for some of the cognition deficits in Alzheimer's disease. Conversely, patients taking medications that slow the breakdown of this neurotransmitter have experienced improvements in memory.
 Normal volunteers and patients with Alzheimer's disease may be eligible for this study of functional brain imaging using positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). These techniques can measure brain activity and identify brain regions involved in memory and attention. Candidates for this study will be screened with a medical and psychiatric history and a physical examination including blood tests, urinalysis, chest X-ray and electrocardiogram (ECG). Those enrolled will perform memory and attention tasks during PET and MRI studies. The cognition tasks will be repeated twice-once during infusion of saline (a fluid with no drug effect) through a catheter inserted into a blood vessel and again during infusion of physostigmine, a drug that delays the breakdown of acetylcholine. The PET procedure will be completed in one day; the MRI procedure will be done on two different days.
 During imaging, attention and memory tasks will be presented in short blocks of about 4-minutes duration. They will be repeated in sequence up to 10 times with a few minutes separation. Subjects will be shown pictures of faces or other visual stimuli and asked to decide whether the pictures are the same or different.
 Information gained from this study may increase knowledge about how acetylcholine affects the brain's response to memory and attention tasks and perhaps lead to better treatments for the cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02759159
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the major brain diseases which received more attention in recent years. The disconnection syndrome is the main pathophysiological mechanism leading to cognitive decline in AD patients. Both animal experiment and clinical observation have demonstrated that acupuncture can generate treatment effect on AD patients by moderating the neural pathway directly. However, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. By using resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) method, as well as acupuncture and neurology sciences, investigators will explore the multi-modality data analysis; compare brain connectivity and network parameters changes between pre- and post- acupuncture treatment; analyze the correlation between fMRI changes and neuropsychology test. The present study aims to elucidate the neural mechanism of acupuncture therapy on early AD, provide theoretical evidence from the perspective of functional connectivity.

>>NCT00013182
Sleep-activity rhythm disturbance is a prevalent, disabling symptom in cognitively-impaired (CI) elders. Their nocturnal sleep is light and inefficient with frequent awakenings. Multiple short daytime napping episodes interfere with daytime activity and functioning. Daytime disruptive behaviors, such as pacing, hitting and cursing are related significantly to sleep-activity rhythm disturbance. Medical treatment for sleep and behavior disturbances with benzodiazepines or antipsychotic medications has proven minimally effective and has serious side effects such as impairments in cognition, memory, coordination and balance, tolerance and severe rebound insomnia and tardive dyskinesia. Sleep-activity rhythm disturbance is a prevalent, disabling symptom in cognitively-impaired (CI) elders. Their nocturnal sleep is light and inefficient with frequent awakenings. Multiple short daytime napping episodes interfere with daytime activity and functioning. Daytime disruptive behaviors, such as pacing, hitting and cursing are related significantly to sleep-activity rhythm disturbance. Medical treatment for sleep and behavior disturbances with benzodiazepines or antipsychotic medications has proven minimally effective and has serious side effects such as impairments in cognition, memory, coordination and balance, tolerance and severe rebound insomnia and tardive dyskinesia.

>>NCT02162264
To investigate the factors that affect Aricept medication persistence rate and the safety and efficacy in patients with Alzheimer's Disease in clinical practice.

>>NCT01819714
The main objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of 3 months of "Snoezelen-type" multi-sensory care sessions on NeuroPsychiatric Inventory Questionnaire (NPI-Q) scores for patients with Alzheimer's-type neurodegenerative disease. The main objective of this study is to evaluate the effect of 3 months of "Snoezelen-type" multi-sensory care sessions on NeuroPsychiatric Inventory Questionnaire (NPI-Q) scores for patients with Alzheimer's-type neurodegenerative disease.

>>NCT02120664
This study is designed to demonstrate the conversion of florbetapir (18F) Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Standard Uptake Value ratio (SUVr) to Centiloid units.

>>NCT01163825
Cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain project widely to the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. These neurons depend on nerve growth factor (NGF) from their target areas for survival. Impaired NGF supply is part of the Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology and the degeneration of these neurons correlates with the cognitive decline in these patients. The objective of encapsulated cell biodelivery (ECB) is to maintain normal levels of NGF to support cholinergic function. NsGene's NGF secreting ECB device (NsG0202) combines the potential benefits of targeted gene therapy with the safety of a retrievable implantable device.
 The study is an open label, single centre, 12-month, dose-escalation phase Ib study in patients with mild to moderate AD. The primary objective is safety and tolerability, while secondary outcomes measure include cognition, behaviour, neuropsychology, activities of daily living (ADL), positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and electroencephalography (EEG).

>>NCT01660815
This study will determine how florbetapir (18F) (18F-AV-45) radioactivity is distributed throughout the body of Japanese subjects.

>>NCT02305836
A prospective block randomized controlled trial aimed at assessing if EA is more effective than donepezil for improving the cognitive function of AD patients. The hypothesis of this study is as follow:.
 - Is the short-term effect of electroacupuncture better than donepezil on improving cognitive function of patients with Alzheimer's disease after 12 weeks' treatment?.
 - Whether the effect of electroacupuncture on improving cognitive function can last until the end of 6 months' follow-up? A prospective block randomized controlled trial aimed at assessing if EA is more effective than donepezil for improving the cognitive function of AD patients. The hypothesis of this study is as follow:.
 - Is the short-term effect of electroacupuncture better than donepezil on improving cognitive function of patients with Alzheimer's disease after 12 weeks' treatment?.
 - Whether the effect of electroacupuncture on improving cognitive function can last until the end of 6 months' follow-up?.

>>NCT01436188
The purpose of this study is to investigate changes of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) proteins over time using continuous CSF sampling for 36 hours in elderly healthy volunteers and volunteers with mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study is to investigate changes of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) proteins over time using continuous CSF sampling for 36 hours in elderly healthy volunteers and volunteers with mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00253123
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of risperidone (an antipsychotic medication) versus placebo in the treatment of behavioral disturbances associated with dementia. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of risperidone (an antipsychotic medication) versus placebo in the treatment of behavioral disturbances associated with dementia.

>>NCT00606476
This is a multicenter, open-label, long-term extension study in male and female patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) who must have completed one of the following studies: AAB-001-201 or AAB-001-102. All patients enrolled in Study AAB-001-251 will receive infusions of AAB-001 (bapineuzumab), including patients randomized to placebo in Study 201 and 102. Approximately 30 study sites in the US will be involved. Each patient's participation may vary from 3 months up to 84 months depending on the date of enrollment in this study.
 AAB-001 (bapineuzumab) is a humanized monoclonal antibody, which binds to and potentially clears beta amyloid peptide and is designed to provide antibodies to beta amyloid directly to the patient.

>>NCT02055092
People diagnosed with young onset dementia are today mostly assigned to the same healthcare services as people developing dementia at an older age. They and their families are however in a quite different life situation, which is likely to generate different challenges and specific needs for tailored healthcare services, of importance in maintaining their perceived quality of life.
 The investigators of this study wish to assess the factors influencing these families' quality of life, their specific needs and their use of healthcare services by the use a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods. The main aim of this study is to provide better future healthcare services to these families and to develop a programme for optimal collaboration between specialist healthcare services and the local dementia teams. People diagnosed with young onset dementia are today mostly assigned to the same healthcare services as people developing dementia at an older age. They and their families are however in a quite different life situation, which is likely to generate different challenges and specific needs for tailored healthcare services, of importance in maintaining their perceived quality of life.
 The investigators of this study wish to assess the factors influencing these families' quality of life, their specific needs and their use of healthcare services by the use a combination of quantitative and qualitative methods. The main aim of this study is to provide better future healthcare services to these families and to develop a programme for optimal collaboration between specialist healthcare services and the local dementia teams.

>>NCT01152216
An open-label extension study of the CONCERT (DIM18) protocol evaluating the safety of dimebon (latrepirdine) in subjects with With Mild-to-Moderate Alzheimer's Disease on Donepezil.

>>NCT00396825
The purpose of this Phase II SBIR study is a) to complete the adaptation begun in Phase I of the ten skill modules of the Williams LifeSkills Video (WLV) for use by persons who are caregivers for a relative with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or other dementia, b) to script and produce the complete Caregiver LifeSkills Video (CLV) and c) to conduct a randomized clinical trial of the completed CLV to document benefits in terms of reduced psychosocial distress, reduced biomarkers of stress and improved well being. The purpose of this Phase II SBIR study is a) to complete the adaptation begun in Phase I of the ten skill modules of the Williams LifeSkills Video (WLV) for use by persons who are caregivers for a relative with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or other dementia, b) to script and produce the complete Caregiver LifeSkills Video (CLV) and c) to conduct a randomized clinical trial of the completed CLV to document benefits in terms of reduced psychosocial distress, reduced biomarkers of stress and improved well being.

>>NCT01712074
This study will evaluate safety and efficacy of PF-05212377 in subjects with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease with existing neuropsychiatric symptoms on a stable dose of Donepezil. The 4-week run-in will minimize placebo effect. The 12-week treatment period is considered the minimum length necessary to reliably evaluate the effect PF-05212377 on cognition and and neuropsychiatric symptoms in this population. The 2-week washout will allow to monitor re-emergence of neuropsychiatric and cognitive symptoms.

>>NCT02051335
The purpose of this study is to determine whether scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment is attenuated by the administration of roflumilast in combination with donepezil. The purpose of this study is to determine whether scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment is attenuated by the administration of roflumilast in combination with donepezil.

>>NCT01094145
In the study at hand, six patients with light to moderate Alzheimer's disease will be enrolled and implanted with bilateral electrodes in the nucleus basalis Meynert. In the study at hand, six patients with light to moderate Alzheimer's disease will be enrolled and implanted with bilateral electrodes in the nucleus basalis Meynert.

>>NCT02294513
There is a strong connection between hearing loss and cognitive impairment, particularly dementia, in old age. Worldwide, dementia affects approximately 5% of persons over the age of 65 years. Hearing loss is even more prevalent in old age, affecting an estimated one third of persons over the age of 65 years. Thus, there is likely a large degree of overlap between the impairments. Indeed, this overlap may influence older adults' everyday functioning, communication, social engagement and quality of life, as well as influencing the well-being of their family caregivers. This project will examine whether patients with hearing loss and Alzheimer's disease, the most common form of dementia, derive benefit the from hearing aids prescribed and fit to them following current best practice procedures in a geriatric audiology clinic. For the first time, a formal evaluation of the potential benefits of hearing aids for the patients' family caregivers will also be conducted. There is a strong connection between hearing loss and cognitive impairment, particularly dementia, in old age. Worldwide, dementia affects approximately 5% of persons over the age of 65 years. Hearing loss is even more prevalent in old age, affecting an estimated one third of persons over the age of 65 years. Thus, there is likely a large degree of overlap between the impairments. Indeed, this overlap may influence older adults' everyday functioning, communication, social engagement and quality of life, as well as influencing the well-being of their family caregivers. This project will examine whether patients with hearing loss and Alzheimer's disease, the most common form of dementia, derive benefit the from hearing aids prescribed and fit to them following current best practice procedures in a geriatric audiology clinic. For the first time, a formal evaluation of the potential benefits of hearing aids for the patients' family caregivers will also be conducted.

>>NCT01894620
This research is being conducted to study whether rTMS (repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation) could be potentially used as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease. rTMS is a technique that stimulates the brain by rapidly switching a magnetic field in a coil placed over your head. Prior to rTMS, single pulse TMS will be used to localize the specific brain region that we are interested in. This research is being conducted to study whether rTMS (repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation) could be potentially used as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease. rTMS is a technique that stimulates the brain by rapidly switching a magnetic field in a coil placed over your head. Prior to rTMS, single pulse TMS will be used to localize the specific brain region that we are interested in.

>>NCT01525368
Cognitive training has been shown to be successful in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), a group at high-risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Moreover, in a randomized controlled trial, the investigators recently found that aMCI patients receiving a cognitive intervention showed stable hypometabolism in FDG-PET, whereas patients in an active control group showed pronounced hypometabolism on follow-up scans in regions typically affected in AD.
 Previous studies indicate that not all patients respond equally well to a cognitive intervention. Identifying factors that predict response to treatment could help selecting patients for a targeted intervention. A potentially important predictor is cognitive reserve defined as premorbid cognitive performance. The hypothesis is that different levels of cognitive reserve (high cognitive reserve vs. low cognitive reserve) have different neurostructural and neurofunctional correlates and influence treatment response in a different way. Moreover, the impact of white matter lesions on treatment effects will be investigated.
 The investigator will perform a complex cognitive training program. Forty patients with aMCI (20 with high cognitive reserve, 20 with low cognitive reserve) will be recruited in this study. Since the patients are recruited consecutively, an estimated overall number of 80 will be included and receive the training of whom about 40 will meet the inclusion criteria for our cognitive-reserve-study (high or low cognitive reserve). Data of the whole group will be used to analyze the potential impact of white matter lesions on response to the intervention. Cognitive effects of the intervention will be evaluated by neuropsychological testing. Neurofunctional and neurostructural changes depending on cognitive reserve will be measured using resting state fMRI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI).
 For comparison, a group of 30 aMCI patients will be recruited as an active control group receiving study investigations (neuropsychological testing as well as MRIs) and exercises for self-study at home, not the complex cognitive intervention.

>>NCT01138111
The aim of the study is to investigate whether Florbetaben (BAY94-9172)positron emission tomography (PET) is able to distinguish between subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) progressing to Alzheimer's disease (AD) from those with MCI not progressing to AD.

>>NCT02489110
Photozig and Stanford University are creating a new program for Hispanic dementia caregivers to help cope with caregiving, alleviate related stress and enhance quality of life for caregivers, with funding from the National Institute on Aging. The program includes a new education online telenovela (Webnovela), online resources, handouts and a DVD (for users without Internet) on how to deal with caregiving stress and handle difficult situations. Photozig and Stanford University are creating a new program for Hispanic dementia caregivers to help cope with caregiving, alleviate related stress and enhance quality of life for caregivers, with funding from the National Institute on Aging. The program includes a new education online telenovela (Webnovela), online resources, handouts and a DVD (for users without Internet) on how to deal with caregiving stress and handle difficult situations.

>>NCT00523666
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive subcortical and cortical neuronal degeneration. AD patients differ in the time course of neuronal degeneration and accompanying cognitive decline.
 With recent advances in MR imaging, including optimized data acquisition and processing techniques, tools that are especially well suited for tracking long-term pathological changes as well as drug treatment effects have become available. In addition to structural imaging, new acquisition and analysis techniques have been developed to determine integrity of subcortical fiber tracts in vivo.
 In the present project we propose to determine predictors of disease progression and treatment response and investigate potential treatment effects on structural disease progression, covering the continuum from axonal degeneration to cortical neuronal loss taking advantage of recent advances in MRI acquisition and analysis techniques. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive subcortical and cortical neuronal degeneration. AD patients differ in the time course of neuronal degeneration and accompanying cognitive decline.
 With recent advances in MR imaging, including optimized data acquisition and processing techniques, tools that are especially well suited for tracking long-term pathological changes as well as drug treatment effects have become available. In addition to structural imaging, new acquisition and analysis techniques have been developed to determine integrity of subcortical fiber tracts in vivo.
 In the present project we propose to determine predictors of disease progression and treatment response and investigate potential treatment effects on structural disease progression, covering the continuum from axonal degeneration to cortical neuronal loss taking advantage of recent advances in MRI acquisition and analysis techniques.

>>NCT01689246
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of TRx0237 in the treatment of subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02593318
The purpose of this study is to determine if oxaloacetate (OAA) is safe and tolerable at doses of up to 2 grams per day in people with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine if oxaloacetate (OAA) is safe and tolerable at doses of up to 2 grams per day in people with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01284387
A Phase II clinical research study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two different dose levels of an injectable investigational treatment (ACC-001) in subjects with Mild-to-Moderate Alzheimer's disease. ACC-001 (vanutide cridificar) is a beta amyloid fragment attached to a carrier protein. It is intended to help induce an antibody response against beta amyloid and is administered as an intramuscular injection.

>>NCT00245206
This study will compare four atypical antipsychotic medications in terms of the risk of specific side effects each of them presents in middle-aged and elderly individuals. This study will compare four atypical antipsychotic medications in terms of the risk of specific side effects each of them presents in middle-aged and elderly individuals.

>>NCT01777789
The purpose of the study is to use functional MRI (fMRI) to measure brain connectivity in middle-aged individuals with different levels of body fat. The ultimate goal of this research is to develop an early diagnostic tool for Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of the study is to use functional MRI (fMRI) to measure brain connectivity in middle-aged individuals with different levels of body fat. The ultimate goal of this research is to develop an early diagnostic tool for Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02612805
This study evaluates the effects of the combined exercise training (aerobic more resistance) and of the aerobic exercise training isolated compared to control group, which performed only stretching and relaxation, in the treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). The two exercise interventions and the control procedure are performed in aquatic environment. This study evaluates the effects of the combined exercise training (aerobic more resistance) and of the aerobic exercise training isolated compared to control group, which performed only stretching and relaxation, in the treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). The two exercise interventions and the control procedure are performed in aquatic environment.

>>NCT01503944
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the ability to identify individuals with dopaminergic degeneration in group of patients with a clinical diagnosis of either dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) or idiopathic Parkinson's disease and to differentiate them from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and control subjects.

>>NCT01707719
High lipid peroxidation and altered antioxidant defenses have been frequently reported in Alzheimer's disease patients.
 The purpose of this study is to investigate susceptibility to photo-oxidation of isolated erythrocyte membranes, in patients affected by Alzheimer's disease and age- and sex-matched, non demented subjects. High lipid peroxidation and altered antioxidant defenses have been frequently reported in Alzheimer's disease patients.
 The purpose of this study is to investigate susceptibility to photo-oxidation of isolated erythrocyte membranes, in patients affected by Alzheimer's disease and age- and sex-matched, non demented subjects.

>>NCT00065767
The aim of this study is to determine the effectiveness of treatment with raloxifene, an estrogen-like medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of osteoporosis, in improving memory and the ability to live independently in postmenopausal women with Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study is to determine the effectiveness of treatment with raloxifene, an estrogen-like medication approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of osteoporosis, in improving memory and the ability to live independently in postmenopausal women with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00285025
The primary objective is to demonstrate that SR57667B at the dose of 4 mg/day, in comparison to placebo, decreases the decline in cognitive performance and the global clinical decline over 1 year in patients with mild to moderate AD.
 Secondary objectives are to assess the effect of SR57667B on functional decline and its safety/tolerability in patients with mild to moderate AD and to document plasma concentrations of SR57667 in patients with mild to moderate AD. The primary objective is to demonstrate that SR57667B at the dose of 4 mg/day, in comparison to placebo, decreases the decline in cognitive performance and the global clinical decline over 1 year in patients with mild to moderate AD.
 Secondary objectives are to assess the effect of SR57667B on functional decline and its safety/tolerability in patients with mild to moderate AD and to document plasma concentrations of SR57667 in patients with mild to moderate AD.

>>NCT00660088
AC-1202 (Ketasyn) is a nutritional beverage currently being studied in neurodegenerative conditions including Alzheimer's disease. The current study is a randomized, open-label trial to compare the safety, tolerability and PK profiles of 3 formulations of Ketasyn administered on a daily basis for 14 days, with and without a 7-day titration period, in normal, healthy elderly volunteers. AC-1202 (Ketasyn) is a nutritional beverage currently being studied in neurodegenerative conditions including Alzheimer's disease. The current study is a randomized, open-label trial to compare the safety, tolerability and PK profiles of 3 formulations of Ketasyn administered on a daily basis for 14 days, with and without a 7-day titration period, in normal, healthy elderly volunteers.

>>NCT00688207
The present pharmacokinetic study is designed to assess the pharmacokinetics of RSG XR as monotherapy in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) as such information will not be obtained from the current phase III trials . The study aims to enroll fourteen patients (seven of each APOE genotype). Each patient will receive a single oral dose of 4mg of RSG XR in the morning under fasted conditions and PK samples will be taken up to 36h.

>>NCT01350362
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the cognitive changes after administration of tideglusib versus placebo at two oral doses and two treatment regimes for 26 weeks in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
 After the 26 week core treatment period, the patients may continue in the study under blinded conditions for an optional extension period up to a maximum of 39 additional weeks (total study duration up to 65 weeks), until the last patient in the study has completed the 26 week of treatment. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the cognitive changes after administration of tideglusib versus placebo at two oral doses and two treatment regimes for 26 weeks in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
 After the 26 week core treatment period, the patients may continue in the study under blinded conditions for an optional extension period up to a maximum of 39 additional weeks (total study duration up to 65 weeks), until the last patient in the study has completed the 26 week of treatment.

>>NCT00842816
This study will investigate the ability of ST101 to improve memory in people with Alzheimer's disease who currently receive 10 mg Aricept (donepezil) per day. This study also will examine the safety and tolerability of the drug. This study is evaluating 3 different dose levels of ST101 and placebo. Patients will have a 1 in 4 chance of getting placebo. All eligible subjects will be provided with bottles of 10 mg Aricept (donepezil) during the study drug administration part of the study. This study will investigate the ability of ST101 to improve memory in people with Alzheimer's disease who currently receive 10 mg Aricept (donepezil) per day. This study also will examine the safety and tolerability of the drug. This study is evaluating 3 different dose levels of ST101 and placebo. Patients will have a 1 in 4 chance of getting placebo. All eligible subjects will be provided with bottles of 10 mg Aricept (donepezil) during the study drug administration part of the study.

>>NCT01699503
The purpose of the study is to conduct a randomized clinical trial assessing the harms and benefits of screening for dementia, compared to no screening for dementia, among 4000 older adults, cared for in typical, primary care practices. The purpose of the study is to conduct a randomized clinical trial assessing the harms and benefits of screening for dementia, compared to no screening for dementia, among 4000 older adults, cared for in typical, primary care practices.

>>NCT01093664
This is a phase IB follow-up study to assess a boost immunization with AFFITOPE AD02 with regard to safety/tolerability, immunological and clinical activity in Alzheimer patients who have received the vaccine within the clinical study AFF002.

>>NCT00930059
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of PF-04447943 compared to placebo on cognitive, behavioral and overall symptoms of Alzheimer's disease; evaluate the safety and tolerability of PF-0444793 compared to placebo; and determine the levels of PF-04447943 in the plasma over the course of the study.

>>NCT02760602
The main purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of the study drug solanezumab in participants with prodromal Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01450891
Background: New research criteria for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have recently been developed to enable an early diagnosis of AD pathophysiology by relying on emerging biomarkers. To enable efficient allocation of health care resources, evidence is needed to support decision makers on the adoption of emerging biomarkers in clinical practice. The research goals are to 1) assess the diagnostic test accuracy (of current clinical diagnostic work-up and emerging biomarkers in Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF), 2) perform a cost-consequence analysis and 3) assess long-term cost-effectiveness by an economic model.
 Methods/design: In a cohort design 304 consecutive patients suspected of having a primary neurodegenerative disease are approached in four academic memory clinics and followed for two years. Clinical data and data on quality of life data, costs and emerging biomarkers are gathered.
 Diagnostic test accuracy is determined by relating the clinical practice and new research criteria diagnoses to the reference diagnosis. The clinical practice diagnosis at baseline is reflected by a consensus procedure among experts using clinical information only (no biomarkers). The diagnosis based on the new research criteria is reflected by decision rules that combine clinical and biomarker information. The reference diagnosis is determined by a consensus procedure among experts based on clinical information on the course of symptoms over a two-year time period.
 A decision analytic model is build combining available evidence from different resources among which (accuracy) results from the study, literature and expert opinion to assess long-term cost-effectiveness of the emerging biomarkers.
 Discussion: Several other multi-centre trials study the relative value of new biomarkers for early evaluation of AD and related disorders. The uniqueness of this study is the assessment of resource utilization and quality of life to enable an economic evaluation. The study results are generalizable to a population of patients who are referred to a memory clinic due to their memory problems.

>>NCT00120874
The purpose of this study is to determine whether a comprehensive, individualized management approach with caregiver training and medication with memantine will alleviate symptoms in community dwelling patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine whether a comprehensive, individualized management approach with caregiver training and medication with memantine will alleviate symptoms in community dwelling patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00708552
The study is designed to investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of SB-742457 versus placebo in subjects with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. SB-742457 is an experimental treatment which increases the levels of certain chemicals in the brain that are often decreased in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00566501
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of long-term administration of 23 mg donepezil sustained release (SR) in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. Patients who complete study E2020-G000-326 with no ongoing serious adverse events (SAEs) and no serious adverse drug reactions will be eligible to enter the open-label extension study.

>>NCT02859207
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the effects of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of E2609 after a single dose administration.

>>NCT02265757
This study will compare the effectiveness of different combinations of 5 types of behavioral interventions across patient-centered outcomes. It will also evaluate which outcomes (e.g. quality of life, cognition, function, mood) matter most to people at risk for dementia and their care partners. The results of this study have the potential to direct patients, families and health care providers as to which combinations of behavioral interventions provide the greatest potential impact on which dementia prevention outcomes. Greater use of behavioral strategies that are targeted to the outcomes of most important to the patient will likely improve patient compliance and treatment adherence. This, in turn, can lessen the need for medication, health care and long term care utilization. This study will compare the effectiveness of different combinations of 5 types of behavioral interventions across patient-centered outcomes. It will also evaluate which outcomes (e.g. quality of life, cognition, function, mood) matter most to people at risk for dementia and their care partners. The results of this study have the potential to direct patients, families and health care providers as to which combinations of behavioral interventions provide the greatest potential impact on which dementia prevention outcomes. Greater use of behavioral strategies that are targeted to the outcomes of most important to the patient will likely improve patient compliance and treatment adherence. This, in turn, can lessen the need for medication, health care and long term care utilization.

>>NCT00314912
The purpose of this Phase III open-label extension study is to evaluate the long-term safety of Tramiprosate (3APS) in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimers disease. The purpose of this Phase III open-label extension study is to evaluate the long-term safety of Tramiprosate (3APS) in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimers disease.

>>NCT00089882
The REVEAL II study provides healthy adult children and siblings of Alzheimer's disease patients with genetic testing and information about their own chances of developing the disease. The study will compare a condensed education and counseling program to the current more extensive program. The REVEAL II study provides healthy adult children and siblings of Alzheimer's disease patients with genetic testing and information about their own chances of developing the disease. The study will compare a condensed education and counseling program to the current more extensive program.

>>NCT01626391
The primary purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of TRx0237 when taken at the same time as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (i.e., donepezil, galantamine or rivastigmine) and / or memantine to treat patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01075763
This was a 52-week, multicentric, phase II, pilot study conducted in 40 subjects with early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) to evaluate safety, tolerability and clinical efficacy of subcutaneous (sc) interferon (IFN) beta-1a [Rebif 22 microgram (mcg), three times per week (tiw)] in the treatment of AD by comparing the neuropsychological performance changes into placebo and treatment arms from screening/baseline to 52 week. This was a 52-week, multicentric, phase II, pilot study conducted in 40 subjects with early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) to evaluate safety, tolerability and clinical efficacy of subcutaneous (sc) interferon (IFN) beta-1a [Rebif 22 microgram (mcg), three times per week (tiw)] in the treatment of AD by comparing the neuropsychological performance changes into placebo and treatment arms from screening/baseline to 52 week.

>>NCT00997425
Main hypothesis. Floor and door visual exit barriers will decrease exit-seeking wandering (exit door approaches) proximal to exit doorways by persons with dementia who wander. Main hypothesis. Floor and door visual exit barriers will decrease exit-seeking wandering (exit door approaches) proximal to exit doorways by persons with dementia who wander.

>>NCT01946243
The overall objective of the study is to assess the feasibility of implementing a quantitative process of florbetapir F 18 scan interpretation. The hypothesis is that the use of quantitative analysis will increase the accuracy of florbetapir F 18 scan interpretation.

>>NCT00065169
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the anti-inflammatory drug celecoxib can delay the onset of Alzheimer Disease (AD) in people with Age Associated Memory Impairment (AAMI). This study will also evaluate genetic risk and brain structure as potential predictors of mental decline. The purpose of this study is to determine whether the anti-inflammatory drug celecoxib can delay the onset of Alzheimer Disease (AD) in people with Age Associated Memory Impairment (AAMI). This study will also evaluate genetic risk and brain structure as potential predictors of mental decline.

>>NCT01198093
The objective of this study is to present evidence-based medicine for development of clinical practice guideline through prospective study of Alzheimer's disease(AD) and mild cognitive impairment(MCI) in korea The objective of this study is to present evidence-based medicine for development of clinical practice guideline through prospective study of Alzheimer's disease(AD) and mild cognitive impairment(MCI) in korea.

>>NCT00174525
This research study will assess whether AAB-001 is safe, well tolerated and effective for use in patients with Alzheimer's Disease. AAB-001 is a new drug that is not available outside this study. AAB-001 is an antibody (a type of protein usually produced by white blood cells to destroy other substances in the body). In Alzheimer's disease a protein called amyloid gathers in the brain and is thought to cause symptoms like memory loss and confusion. It is hoped that AAB-001 will attach to the amyloid protein in your brain and help your body to remove it.

>>NCT00151333
To determine the safety and tolerability of multiple ascending fixed oral doses of SRA-333 in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00792662
The primary purpose of this study is to determine if the study medication Methylphenidate (Ritalin) will improve subject's blood-sugar control by improving their motivation more than placebo. The secondary objectives of the study are to determine if daily functioning and quality of life improves with methylphenidate treatment. The primary purpose of this study is to determine if the study medication Methylphenidate (Ritalin) will improve subject's blood-sugar control by improving their motivation more than placebo. The secondary objectives of the study are to determine if daily functioning and quality of life improves with methylphenidate treatment.

>>NCT00988624
This study will evaluate four different modified release formulation to estimate the amount of dimebon available to the body relative to the current dimebon formulation that is given three times a day. The results of this study will help inform and guide further formulation development efforts with the ultimate goal of reducing dose frequency to once-a-day or twice-a-day.

>>NCT00255866
This study will develop a treatment program to reduce mood and behavior problems in assisted living residents who have dementia. This study will develop a treatment program to reduce mood and behavior problems in assisted living residents who have dementia.

>>NCT01825681
Life Enhancing Activities for Family Caregivers is a six-week program designed to increase positive affect in people who care for a family member with dementia. The intervention consists of 6 weekly one-hour sessions conducted one-on-one with a trained facilitator to teach simple skills that are practiced at home in a study-supplied workbook. The program is preceded and followed by a 30-45 minute questionnaire. Follow-up assessments will be conducted at 1-month, 3-months and 6-months post intervention.
 Primary hypothesis is that experimental subjects who participate in LEAF will demonstrate significantly greater improvements in psychological outcomes and will engage in more problem focused and positive appraisal forms of coping compared to the wait-list control condition. Life Enhancing Activities for Family Caregivers is a six-week program designed to increase positive affect in people who care for a family member with dementia. The intervention consists of 6 weekly one-hour sessions conducted one-on-one with a trained facilitator to teach simple skills that are practiced at home in a study-supplied workbook. The program is preceded and followed by a 30-45 minute questionnaire. Follow-up assessments will be conducted at 1-month, 3-months and 6-months post intervention.
 Primary hypothesis is that experimental subjects who participate in LEAF will demonstrate significantly greater improvements in psychological outcomes and will engage in more problem focused and positive appraisal forms of coping compared to the wait-list control condition.

>>NCT01658722
A Phase 3b, Study of Subjects With Alzheimer's Disease Who Discontinued Treatment in Bapineuzumab Phase 3 Clinical Studies (ELN115727-301 - 302/351) or Who Completed Studies ELN115727-301 and 302 but did not Enroll in Study ELN115727-351.

>>NCT02831283
This study is being done to learn about inflammation and amyloid in Alzheimer's disease. A type of brain scan called a PET scan is used measure 1) inflammation and 2) abnormal accumulation of a the amount of a certain protein fragment called beta-amyloid (plaques) in the brain. These are thought to be involved in Alzheimer's disease. The investigators will also perform brain MRI and do tests to measure the participants' memory and thinking. This study is being done to learn about inflammation and amyloid in Alzheimer's disease. A type of brain scan called a PET scan is used measure 1) inflammation and 2) abnormal accumulation of a the amount of a certain protein fragment called beta-amyloid (plaques) in the brain. These are thought to be involved in Alzheimer's disease. The investigators will also perform brain MRI and do tests to measure the participants' memory and thinking.

>>NCT01602393
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ascending oral doses of CHF 5074 after prolonged administration to patients with mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT01715181
Older adults with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia frequently develop challenging neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) as a result of their illness. Non-pharmacological strategies to manage these symptoms such as music, exercise and participating in pleasant social events have been demonstrated to be safe and effective strategies to reduce these behavioral symptoms. Our project, Volunteers Adding Life in Dementia (VALID), will design and implement a volunteer-led program to reduce behavioral symptoms and improve the quality of life of older adults with dementia who are residing in long-term care facilities. Older adults with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia frequently develop challenging neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) as a result of their illness. Non-pharmacological strategies to manage these symptoms such as music, exercise and participating in pleasant social events have been demonstrated to be safe and effective strategies to reduce these behavioral symptoms. Our project, Volunteers Adding Life in Dementia (VALID), will design and implement a volunteer-led program to reduce behavioral symptoms and improve the quality of life of older adults with dementia who are residing in long-term care facilities.

>>NCT01723488
[F-18]T808 is being developed as a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for PET imaging of the human brain. [F-18]T808 is being developed as a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for PET imaging of the human brain.

>>NCT01039701
The primary purpose of the study is to determine the safety and tolerability of AZD1446 vs Placebo given as an add-on treatment to Donepezil for 4 weeks in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01876459
Patients with memory disorders are experiencing different trends which are difficult to predict. Moreover, the distinction between Lewy body disease and Alzheimer's disease is not easy as both diseases can present similar symptoms. Nowadays, routine examinations exist and can improve the diagnosis but there are not specific enough of one of those two pathologies.
 Lewy body disease is characterized by the presence of particular structures in patient's brain, called "Lewy body", composed of a protein called "alpha-synuclein". The aim of this study is to measure the rate of alpha-synuclein in cerebrospinal fluid. This measurement could allow us to differentiate patient with Alzheimer's disease from those with Lewy body disease.

>>NCT00090402
The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of fish oil and the antioxidant alpha lipoic acid on factors in the blood that are associated with the progression of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of fish oil and the antioxidant alpha lipoic acid on factors in the blood that are associated with the progression of Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT01153802
GSK1360707 is a potent re-uptake inhibitor of the neurotransmitters dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin. This is a single dose PET study in healthy subjects.A final analyses of safety data following exposure to single oral doses, from the first time in human study, with GSK1360707 has demonstrated that the compound is well tolerated up to a dose of 150mg. This imaging study will be an open label, non-randomised PET occupancy study using healthy male volunteers. The degree and time course of DAT and SERT occupancy by GSK1360707 will be determined. The PK/PD relationship between plasma concentrations of GSK1360707 and DAT and SERT occupancy will be described.This protocol amendment includes the flexibility to split the total dose into two doses e.g. 120mg per day could be split into two doses of 60mg. Splitting the total dose is most likely required to maintain therapeutic occupancy on the transporters over the course of the day; in addition it is expected that splitting the dose may reduce effects on vital signs. Therefore collecting data following split dosing will enable best predictions of therapeutic doses to be progressed in subsequent clinical studies. GSK1360707 is a potent re-uptake inhibitor of the neurotransmitters dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin. This is a single dose PET study in healthy subjects.A final analyses of safety data following exposure to single oral doses, from the first time in human study, with GSK1360707 has demonstrated that the compound is well tolerated up to a dose of 150mg. This imaging study will be an open label, non-randomised PET occupancy study using healthy male volunteers. The degree and time course of DAT and SERT occupancy by GSK1360707 will be determined. The PK/PD relationship between plasma concentrations of GSK1360707 and DAT and SERT occupancy will be described.This protocol amendment includes the flexibility to split the total dose into two doses e.g. 120mg per day could be split into two doses of 60mg. Splitting the total dose is most likely required to maintain therapeutic occupancy on the transporters over the course of the day; in addition it is expected that splitting the dose may reduce effects on vital signs. Therefore collecting data following split dosing will enable best predictions of therapeutic doses to be progressed in subsequent clinical studies.

>>NCT00381238
This is an open-label extension to study 49653 - 461, to assess the long-term safety of rosiglitazone (extended release tablets) in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00329082
To study the safety of LY2062430 in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease and in healthy volunteers.

>>NCT01492374
The purpose of the study is to evaluate safety and the pharmacodynamic effects of BMS-241027 on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Tau, connectivity magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computerized cognitive tests in mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) subjects, following 9 weekly intravenous (IV) infusions of BMS-241027.

>>NCT01870453
The objective of the study is to determine the effects of different anesthetic agents on cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The investigators will test the hypothesis that anesthesia with desflurane or propofol, compared to isoflurane or sevoflurane, will have less of an effect on post-operative cognitive dysfunction in patients with AD. The objective of the study is to determine the effects of different anesthetic agents on cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The investigators will test the hypothesis that anesthesia with desflurane or propofol, compared to isoflurane or sevoflurane, will have less of an effect on post-operative cognitive dysfunction in patients with AD.

>>NCT00004845
The primary specific aim of this clinical trial is to determine whether treatment with rofecoxib or naproxen for one year will slow the rate of decline of cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as measured by ADAScog. The primary specific aim of this clinical trial is to determine whether treatment with rofecoxib or naproxen for one year will slow the rate of decline of cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as measured by ADAScog.

>>NCT02260674
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of JNJ-54861911 during 6 months of treatment in participants with early (predementia) alzheimer's disease (AD [degenerative disease of the brain characterized by the insidious onset of dementia, impairment of memory, judgment, attention span and problem solving skills are followed by severe apraxias and a global loss of cognitive abilities]). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of JNJ-54861911 during 6 months of treatment in participants with early (predementia) alzheimer's disease (AD [degenerative disease of the brain characterized by the insidious onset of dementia, impairment of memory, judgment, attention span and problem solving skills are followed by severe apraxias and a global loss of cognitive abilities]).

>>NCT02578303
Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is a sleep-disordered breathing characterized by the occurrence of repeated upper airway obstructions leading to airflow reduction (hypopnea) or cessation (apnea). The apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) is the number of apneas and hypopneas per hour of sleep. OSA patients often report cognitive complaints.
 About 25% of the elderly population is affected by this syndrome with a drastic increase of this rate among dementia patients. OSAS is considered to be an important risk factor for the development of hypertension, heart disease and stroke. Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is a sleep-disordered breathing characterized by the occurrence of repeated upper airway obstructions leading to airflow reduction (hypopnea) or cessation (apnea). The apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) is the number of apneas and hypopneas per hour of sleep. OSA patients often report cognitive complaints.
 About 25% of the elderly population is affected by this syndrome with a drastic increase of this rate among dementia patients. OSAS is considered to be an important risk factor for the development of hypertension, heart disease and stroke.

>>NCT01972204
The purpose of this study is to examine the influence of the instruction on the use of Aricept with educational brochure on the 48-week medication persistence and to assess the reasons for discontinuation.

>>NCT02472899
The study aims to identify immune biomarkers in peripheral blood for identifying Alzheimer's disease (AD). Blood samples from subjects with AD will be compared to age-matched controls without cognitive symptoms, as well as healthy younger subjects. The study aims to identify immune biomarkers in peripheral blood for identifying Alzheimer's disease (AD). Blood samples from subjects with AD will be compared to age-matched controls without cognitive symptoms, as well as healthy younger subjects.

>>NCT00726726
The purpose of this study is to determine whether BMS-708163 will effect the pharmacokinetics of the commonly prescribed medicines midazolam, warfarin, caffeine,omeprazole and dextromethorphan.

>>NCT01147679
This study is designed to document the loss of sociomoral emotions (like empathy, guilt and embarrassment) in patients with behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia. The loss of these emotions, which function as the motivators for social behavior, will manifest in specific interpersonal behaviors. These behaviors will correlate with regional changes in regional changes in medial frontal and anterior temporal lobes. These social and emotional changes will be compared with a young-onset Alzheimer's disease comparison group. This study is designed to document the loss of sociomoral emotions (like empathy, guilt and embarrassment) in patients with behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia. The loss of these emotions, which function as the motivators for social behavior, will manifest in specific interpersonal behaviors. These behaviors will correlate with regional changes in regional changes in medial frontal and anterior temporal lobes. These social and emotional changes will be compared with a young-onset Alzheimer's disease comparison group.

>>NCT00733863
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of repeated subcutaneous injections of CAD106 in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00927108
To study the success of Oligodendrocyte progenitor cell culture project in Rajavithi Hospital to identify an unlimited clone human neuronal progenitor stem cells from the human brain in the Biomolecular Research Center. This study aims to produce the reproductive clone of neuronal development protocols and advance projects. Neuronal cells such as pyramidal cells, oligodendrocyte and dopaminergic neuron differentiation protocol/projects for treatment of Alzheimer's disease, Multiple sclerosis and Parkinson's disease respectively in next phase of clinical trials.

>>NCT02520232
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible, progressive brain disease. It is the most common form of dementia and the major cause of functional dependence in the elderly. Since there is currently no cure for Alzheimer's disease, a growing number of scientists pointed out the interest to use non-pharmacological alternative therapeutic approaches in order to slow down the decline of physical and cognitive resources and improve quality of life of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Several narrative and meta-analytical reviews suggest that regular practice of physical activity delays the occurrence of cognitive decline and slows down Alzheimer's disease progress when compared with sedentary people. Despite the growing interest of the scientific community for the positive effects of chronic exercise on mental health and cognitive functions, the clinical reality of this phenomenon remains to be clearly established, more particularly in aged people suffering from neurodegenerative diseases.The first aim of this research project is to test if chronic exercise reduces and even compensates for a cognitive decline in both patients with prodromal Alzheimer's disease (i.e., no dementia) and aging people with no pathology of central nervous system. The second aim of this research project is to examine whether an increasing of cerebral blood flow induced by chronic exercise can explain this positive effect. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible, progressive brain disease. It is the most common form of dementia and the major cause of functional dependence in the elderly. Since there is currently no cure for Alzheimer's disease, a growing number of scientists pointed out the interest to use non-pharmacological alternative therapeutic approaches in order to slow down the decline of physical and cognitive resources and improve quality of life of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Several narrative and meta-analytical reviews suggest that regular practice of physical activity delays the occurrence of cognitive decline and slows down Alzheimer's disease progress when compared with sedentary people. Despite the growing interest of the scientific community for the positive effects of chronic exercise on mental health and cognitive functions, the clinical reality of this phenomenon remains to be clearly established, more particularly in aged people suffering from neurodegenerative diseases.The first aim of this research project is to test if chronic exercise reduces and even compensates for a cognitive decline in both patients with prodromal Alzheimer's disease (i.e., no dementia) and aging people with no pathology of central nervous system. The second aim of this research project is to examine whether an increasing of cerebral blood flow induced by chronic exercise can explain this positive effect.

>>NCT01143350
The STIM-EHPAD study (for stimulation in nursing home) aims to evaluate the short and medium term effectiveness of staff education as a non-pharmacological intervention to manage apathy in older people with a diagnosis of dementia.
 - Primary efficacy criteria: Apathy Inventory clinician score changes.
 - Secondary efficacy criteria: Apathy Inventory patient and caregiver version changes, Observation scale changes, frequency and severity of the other BPSD using the NPI, qualitative analysis of the nursing home staff behavioural changes.

>>NCT00869817
The purpose of this study is to identify potential biomarkers that may predict the development of Alzheimer's disease in people who carry an Alzheimer's mutation. The purpose of this study is to identify potential biomarkers that may predict the development of Alzheimer's disease in people who carry an Alzheimer's mutation.

>>NCT01315639
The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between plasma putative biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (i.e. Ab40 amyloid and total Ab42 amyloid, free, bound, free/bound, truncated, sAPP) and :.
 - the risk of conversion of individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) into Alzheimer's disease (AD),.
 - the Alzheimer's disease progression rate. The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between plasma putative biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (i.e. Ab40 amyloid and total Ab42 amyloid, free, bound, free/bound, truncated, sAPP) and :.
 - the risk of conversion of individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) into Alzheimer's disease (AD),.
 - the Alzheimer's disease progression rate.

>>NCT02108769
Our aim is to analyze two ancient Tamil practices (chanting and breathing exercise) if they are capable of stimulating saliva containing agents that can be beneficial to the nervous system. Our study subjects will perform Tamil chanting and Tamil breathing exercise. Saliva will be collected before, during and after the exercises. We will quantify the specific proteins in these salivary samples. The results will benefit further studies in various patient populations. Our aim is to analyze two ancient Tamil practices (chanting and breathing exercise) if they are capable of stimulating saliva containing agents that can be beneficial to the nervous system. Our study subjects will perform Tamil chanting and Tamil breathing exercise. Saliva will be collected before, during and after the exercises. We will quantify the specific proteins in these salivary samples. The results will benefit further studies in various patient populations.

>>NCT02002819
Patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) can have seizures in addition to losing their memory and other mental functions (referred to as cognitive functions). The seizures and other examples of overactive electrical activity in the brain that is not noticeable, contribute to the loss of cognitive function. Studies in animal models of AD suggest that a drug that prevents seizures called levetiracetam may reduce neuronal over-excitation and improve cognition. Based on this evidence, the investigators propose to determine if levetiracetam can be used to treat patients with AD. The investigators developed novel instruments for this population that will also be used in future large-scale clinical trials.
 The current study will last for 12 weeks and will involve people with AD. Participants will be initially examined with an overnight brain wave study to assess for silent epileptic (seizure-like) activity. Presence of epileptic activity on the screening exam is not required to enter the trial. Participants will then be assigned to groups in a randomized manner. One group will receive levetiracetam for 4 weeks, then no drug for 4 weeks and then placebo for 4 weeks. For another group, the order of treatments will be reversed. The cognitive abilities of participants will be retested every 4 weeks and compared to those at the beginning. The cognitive tests include a virtual-reality navigation test of memory and computerized tests of mental flexibility and problem solving. The participants will be monitored with a magnetoencephalogram (MEG) with simultaneous EEG (M/EEG) at each visit. M/EEG is a highly effective non-invasive method for identifying brain regions of epileptic activity. The investigators will need to recruit 36 randomized participants to test the study hypotheses. This study will take place at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Memory and Aging Center, which is a large referral site for dementias and the Department of Radiology. The overall goal of the study is to demonstrate that levetiracetam provides cognitive benefit in AD, particularly in patients who have silent epileptic activity.

>>NCT00814801
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two fixed doses (16mg/day and 24mg/day) of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo for the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two fixed doses (16mg/day and 24mg/day) of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo for the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00459550
A study to investigate the safety and tolerability of both single and multiple intravenous administration of GSK933776 in patients with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00582127
This study will evaluate a handheld event-related potential (ERP) testing device from Neuronetrix, Inc. as a method to collect ERP data in an outpatient setting.
 An ERP system records electrical signals at the scalp that are produced by the brain when performing cognitive tasks. By doing this study, we hope to evaluate various performance parameters of the COGNISION(TM) system. This study will evaluate a handheld event-related potential (ERP) testing device from Neuronetrix, Inc. as a method to collect ERP data in an outpatient setting.
 An ERP system records electrical signals at the scalp that are produced by the brain when performing cognitive tasks. By doing this study, we hope to evaluate various performance parameters of the COGNISION(TM) system.

>>NCT02667496
Primary Objective:.
 To compare the effect of repeat doses of Leukine to placebo administered subcutaneously (SC) on established cortical amyloid load in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 Secondary Objective:.
 - To evaluate safety and tolerability of Leukine versus placebo.
 - To explore the effect of Leukine versus placebo on cognitive performance.
 - To collect biospecimens for future biomarker research. Primary Objective:.
 To compare the effect of repeat doses of Leukine to placebo administered subcutaneously (SC) on established cortical amyloid load in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 Secondary Objective:.
 - To evaluate safety and tolerability of Leukine versus placebo.
 - To explore the effect of Leukine versus placebo on cognitive performance.
 - To collect biospecimens for future biomarker research.

>>NCT01764243
The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy as assessed by the Alzheimers Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale 13-item (ADAS-cog-13) of two doses of MT-4666 or placebo administered daily for 24 weeks to subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02569398
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether treatment with JNJ-54861911 slows cognitive decline compared with placebo treatment, as measured by a composite cognitive measure, the Preclinical Alzheimer Cognitive Composite (PACC), in amyloid-positive participants who are asymptomatic at risk for developing Alzheimer's dementia. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether treatment with JNJ-54861911 slows cognitive decline compared with placebo treatment, as measured by a composite cognitive measure, the Preclinical Alzheimer Cognitive Composite (PACC), in amyloid-positive participants who are asymptomatic at risk for developing Alzheimer's dementia.

>>NCT01862640
To compare the efficacy of 2 fixed doses of brexpiprazole with placebo in subjects with agitation associated with dementia of the Alzheimer's type. To compare the efficacy of 2 fixed doses of brexpiprazole with placebo in subjects with agitation associated with dementia of the Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT00843518
The purpose of this study is to determine whether this drug can help symptoms of aggression and agitation in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine whether this drug can help symptoms of aggression and agitation in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02377206
The purpose of this study is to assess the level of neuroinflammation in Alzheimer Disease subject (mild to moderate) estimated with Binding Potential (BP) of [18F]DPA-714 and its relationship with the kinetics of cognitive decline over a 24-month follow-up period (as assessed by Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog) and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores). The purpose of this study is to assess the level of neuroinflammation in Alzheimer Disease subject (mild to moderate) estimated with Binding Potential (BP) of [18F]DPA-714 and its relationship with the kinetics of cognitive decline over a 24-month follow-up period (as assessed by Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog) and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores).

>>NCT02370524
The primary objective of this exploratory imaging study is to further characterize [18F]T807, an investigational PET radioligand for imaging Tau (thought to be a downstream biomarker indicative of neurodegeneration in conditions such as AD).

>>NCT01630525
Alzheimer's disease (AD) has a prolonged prodromal phase before the stage of dementia. Subtle executive cognitive function deficits can be detected at this early pre-dementia phase, more than 10 years before dementia. Among them, the digit symbol substitution task (DSST) has been shown to be altered very early, up to 13 years before dementia. This test, as many others executive function tests, requires a fine control of visuomotor coordination. Like executive functions, eye movements, particularly voluntary-guided saccades, are under the control of the frontal lobe and fronto-parietal networks. Previous studies have shown a deterioration of voluntary saccades in AD using various paradigms. There are no data in prodromal AD, although the pathological process of the disease affects very early brain structures implicated in saccades execution (eg. caudate nucleus and pre-cuneus).

>>NCT00692510
The purpose of the study is to evaluate if AZD3480 inhibits Cytochrome P450 1A2, 2C19, 3A4, 2C8, 2B6 and UGT1A1 activity.

>>NCT01378195
Photozig and Stanford University are creating a program to help cope with caregiving, alleviate related stress and enhance quality of life for caregivers, with funding from the National Institute on Aging. This home-based program includes a free DVD, printed materials and resource website. In addition, after completing the program, participants will have free access to final online resources for 1 year. There are no face-to-face meetings and participants can live anywhere in the United States. Photozig and Stanford University are creating a program to help cope with caregiving, alleviate related stress and enhance quality of life for caregivers, with funding from the National Institute on Aging. This home-based program includes a free DVD, printed materials and resource website. In addition, after completing the program, participants will have free access to final online resources for 1 year. There are no face-to-face meetings and participants can live anywhere in the United States.

>>NCT01315704
The purpose of this study is to compare characteristics of gait and balance measured among patients with Alzheimer's disease or related disorders separated into 3 groups according to the stage of disease (i.e., pre-dementia, mild and moderate dementia stages); to determine the effects of anti-dementia drugs and vitamin D on cognitive motor abnormalities; and to establish a database at Angers University Memory Centre. The purpose of this study is to compare characteristics of gait and balance measured among patients with Alzheimer's disease or related disorders separated into 3 groups according to the stage of disease (i.e., pre-dementia, mild and moderate dementia stages); to determine the effects of anti-dementia drugs and vitamin D on cognitive motor abnormalities; and to establish a database at Angers University Memory Centre.

>>NCT02359864
This study is designed to assess the safety and toxicity/adverse events associated with the use of low dose fractionated whole brain irradiation in those patients who have been diagnosed with probable Alzheimer's disease according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. As a secondary goal it will establish whether or not the intervention with low dose whole brain irradiation might change the recognized progression of Alzheimer's Disease. The investigators will also collect information from the AMYViD  PET Scans to determine if there is any correlation between neurocognitive/quality of life scores and changes in amyloid plaque size, number and location. This study is designed to assess the safety and toxicity/adverse events associated with the use of low dose fractionated whole brain irradiation in those patients who have been diagnosed with probable Alzheimer's disease according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. As a secondary goal it will establish whether or not the intervention with low dose whole brain irradiation might change the recognized progression of Alzheimer's Disease. The investigators will also collect information from the AMYViD  PET Scans to determine if there is any correlation between neurocognitive/quality of life scores and changes in amyloid plaque size, number and location.

>>NCT01639586
One of the interests of the Alzheimer Plan 2008-2010 is to provide increase support to helping families. It's also of major to involve the patient in the most active treatment possible, encouraging social inter relationship as well as cognitive and behavioural stimulation activities.
 In the frame of non drug related approaches to Alzheimer disease (AD), several research projects and actions have already been conducted but no specific study concerning the efficiency of different types of respite care structures have been conducted so far in France. The present project concerns the thematic of the frame "Development and diversification of respite care structures".
 A platform is defined in the Alzheimer Plan as a "diversified range of despite structures according to patients' needs and informal caregivers' expectations" providing several objectives:.
 Two objectives targeting the informal caregivers:.
 - offer spare time or tutored.
 - inform, support and accompany.
 Two objectives targeting the patients:.
 - encourage maintain of the patient social life and relationships and work together towards his/her psychological and emotional well-being.
 - contribute to improve functional cognitive and sensory capacities.
 The study COMPARSE suggests to compare for the patient - informal caregiver couple, the impact of three different groups of patient care on health profit; resit platform (P), the day care group (D), the control group without access to a respite structure (C).

>>NCT01061489
Age-related cognitive decline is unavoidable. However, recent results of neuroplasticity-based research show that neuroplasticity-based training and physical activity might have the potential to decelerate or even reverse effects of aging and age-related cognitive impairments. Little is known whether these results also apply to pathological processes of aging such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia.
 This multi-center study aims at investigating efficiency and feasibility of a neuroplasticity-based auditory discrimination training and a physical fitness training for patients suffering from mild cognitive impairment or mild Alzheimer's disease (Mini Mental State Examination, MMSE > 19). Evaluation will include neuropsychological testing, electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements as well as blood and liquor analyses.

>>NCT02361242
PLEODIAL-II study is an extension of the previous pilot PLEODIAL-I study (CLN-PXT00864-03 protocol) and is designed for the descriptive analysis of patients with mild AD who are exposed to PXT00864 over an additional 24-week period. PLEODIAL-II study is an extension of the previous pilot PLEODIAL-I study (CLN-PXT00864-03 protocol) and is designed for the descriptive analysis of patients with mild AD who are exposed to PXT00864 over an additional 24-week period.

>>NCT00684944
This is an open label, dose-ranging study of two doses of TRx0014 in patients with mild or moderate Alzheimer's Disease. The trial is made available to any patient ongoing on treatment in the clinical trial designated TRx-014-001 at termination of that study. Treatment for each individual patient will continue for as long as the treating physician feels there is benefit to the patient. This current protocol covers each patient for 12 months in the first instance.

>>NCT02503501
This study evaluates the safety and effectiveness of intranasal (IN) glulisine in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and probable Alzheimer's disease. Half of participants will receive IN glulisine, while the other half will receive IN placebo. This study evaluates the safety and effectiveness of intranasal (IN) glulisine in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and probable Alzheimer's disease. Half of participants will receive IN glulisine, while the other half will receive IN placebo.

>>NCT01815112
The physio-pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unknown and there is no cure. Thus, the search for objective markers of preclinical first signs of cognitive impairment, is currently a major public health issue. Early detection of the disease is a major challenge to hope to slow or even stop the neurodegenerative process before the stage of dementia.
 In AD the investigators observe:.
 - A reduction in the volume of brain hippocampi associated with an alteration of the diffusion of water molecules in the white matter.
 - A structural brain degeneration coupled with a decrease in cerebral glucose metabolism.
 Recent publications show that cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)flow is also altered, probably due to dysfunction of the choroid plexus. Hence the potential interest to study is, in addition to conventional imaging, the imaging of CSF dynamics and choroid plexus metabolism. In that aim,the investigators use two imaging modalities:.
 - Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used to assess blood and CSF flow in the brain.
 - Positron emission tomography (PET) is used to assess glucose metabolism in grey/white matter and also in choroid plexus.
 The investigators expect that, because of choroid plexus atrophy in AD, CSF flow would be altered as well as glucose metabolism dynamic in choroid plexus.

>>NCT02702102
This study uses a special type of scan called a positron emission tomography (PET) scan to take pictures of the brain. During the PET scan, a special dye called 11C-PBR28 is injected into the body.
 11C-PBR28 sticks to parts of the brain where there is inflammation. The purpose of this study is to see if 11C-PBR28 can detect inflammation in patients with Parkinson's disease dementia or dementia with Lewy bodies.
 11C-PBR28 is considered a drug by the Food and Drug Administration. 11C-PBR28 is not a treatment for any disease. Rather, 11C-PBR28 can be used to measure inflammation in the brain. This study uses a special type of scan called a positron emission tomography (PET) scan to take pictures of the brain. During the PET scan, a special dye called 11C-PBR28 is injected into the body.
 11C-PBR28 sticks to parts of the brain where there is inflammation. The purpose of this study is to see if 11C-PBR28 can detect inflammation in patients with Parkinson's disease dementia or dementia with Lewy bodies.
 11C-PBR28 is considered a drug by the Food and Drug Administration. 11C-PBR28 is not a treatment for any disease. Rather, 11C-PBR28 can be used to measure inflammation in the brain.

>>NCT02051764
This study will evaluate the imaging characteristics of 18F-AV-1451 in subjects with a previous 18F-AV-1451 scan in order to assess the rate of change of tau deposition over time.

>>NCT01624389
Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be one of the most pressing problems facing all countries around the world as the population ages.AD is a slowly evolving process that likes begins years to decades before the clinical symptoms area manifest. However, as one would like to identify the disease process at an earlier point in the clinical continuum, the precision of the diagnosis is reduced. Therefore, the challenge is to try to identify the process at the pre-dementia stage and enhance the specificity of the clinical diagnosis through the use of imaging and other biomarkers. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represents an attempt to characterize subjects at an early clinical phase of AD and subjects with MCI have been a target for prevention trials. There are two pathological landmarks, in terms of extra-cellular senile plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. Although present symptomatic treatments provide some benefit to patients with AD, they are not the solution for AD. Up to date, there are still no therapies can alter the underlying nature of the AD process. Therefore, the earlier the intervention takes place, presumably, the greater the protection against further neuronal damage will be appreciated.The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiate (ADNI) is a consortium of universities and medical centers in the United States and Canada established to develop standardized imaging techniques and biomarkers procedures in normal subjects, subjects with MCI and subjects with mild AD. ADNI has been a groundbreaking project, establishing pre-competitive collaboration and real-time data sharing among academia and industry investigators to clarify the relationships among demographic, genetic, clinical, cognitive, neuroimaging and biochemical measures throughout the course of AD neurobiology, in order to facilitate the development of effective therapeutics.This project has exceeded expectations, providing insights into disease mechanisms as well as hugely valuable advances, based primarily on the use of standardized biomarkers, to drug development programs. A number of the leading disease-modifying drug development programs are now employing ADNI methodology toward more efficient trial design, particularly in the critically important early (pre-dementia) AD population Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be one of the most pressing problems facing all countries around the world as the population ages.AD is a slowly evolving process that likes begins years to decades before the clinical symptoms area manifest. However, as one would like to identify the disease process at an earlier point in the clinical continuum, the precision of the diagnosis is reduced. Therefore, the challenge is to try to identify the process at the pre-dementia stage and enhance the specificity of the clinical diagnosis through the use of imaging and other biomarkers. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) represents an attempt to characterize subjects at an early clinical phase of AD and subjects with MCI have been a target for prevention trials. There are two pathological landmarks, in terms of extra-cellular senile plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. Although present symptomatic treatments provide some benefit to patients with AD, they are not the solution for AD. Up to date, there are still no therapies can alter the underlying nature of the AD process. Therefore, the earlier the intervention takes place, presumably, the greater the protection against further neuronal damage will be appreciated.The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiate (ADNI) is a consortium of universities and medical centers in the United States and Canada established to develop standardized imaging techniques and biomarkers procedures in normal subjects, subjects with MCI and subjects with mild AD. ADNI has been a groundbreaking project, establishing pre-competitive collaboration and real-time data sharing among academia and industry investigators to clarify the relationships among demographic, genetic, clinical, cognitive, neuroimaging and biochemical measures throughout the course of AD neurobiology, in order to facilitate the development of effective therapeutics.This project has exceeded expectations, providing insights into disease mechanisms as well as hugely valuable advances, based primarily on the use of standardized biomarkers, to drug development programs. A number of the leading disease-modifying drug development programs are now employing ADNI methodology toward more efficient trial design, particularly in the critically important early (pre-dementia) AD population.

>>NCT00857415
The study is designed to test the relationship between measurements of brain amyloid using florbetapir F 18 PET imaging and true levels of amyloid by dissection of the brain at autopsy. Amyloid in the brain is a key feature of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The study is designed to test the relationship between measurements of brain amyloid using florbetapir F 18 PET imaging and true levels of amyloid by dissection of the brain at autopsy. Amyloid in the brain is a key feature of Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT02681822
To study the impact of genetic and environmental factors on high-level cognition associated neural circuits among healthy young Chinese Han subjects. To study the impact of genetic and environmental factors on high-level cognition associated neural circuits among healthy young Chinese Han subjects.

>>NCT00096473
Donepezil hydrochloride (Aricept) has been approved to treat symptoms associated with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). Aricept has been shown to improve the memory and thinking abilities, activities of daily living and global function in patients. The purpose of the study is to further investigate the effectiveness and safety of donepezil in patients with severe Alzheimer's disease.
 Donepezil is thought to work in the brain by increasing the levels of an important brain chemical called acetylcholine. This chemical helps a person's memory to work better.

>>NCT00718731
This is a first-in-humans study of GSI-136, a drug being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer Disease. The main purpose of this study is to determine whether GSI-136 is safe and tolerable in healthy young and healthy elderly subjects. The amount of drug in the body and the effects of the drug on the body will also be evaluated at certain timepoints.

>>NCT00908492
The purpose of this study is to pilot the home Environmental Skill-Building Program (ESP) and an educational control intervention with persons with dementia and their caregivers (n=40) in preparation for a larger double-blind randomized controlled trial. Caregivers of persons with dementia often deal with difficult behaviors. The ESP is an occupational therapy intervention that helps caregivers adapt to their environment and build care-giving skills. The areas addressed include changes to the home set-up, adaptive equipment, instruction in strategies of problem-solving, energy conservation, safe task performance and fall recovery techniques. A trial is needed with methodological rigor and to determine if the intervention is feasible in the Canadian health care system. Results will contribute to understanding how caregivers and people with dementia can be supported in their home environments.

>>NCT01329484
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the use of computerized systems in 2 common non pharmacological therapies (cognitive training and reminiscence therapy) will improve the cognitive function of patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) or at least delay its deterioration. In addition, the investigators hypothesize that using the computerized systems will result in improved well-being of the patients and their main caregivers / family members and in improved patient-caregiver and patient-family relations. The purpose of this study is to determine whether the use of computerized systems in 2 common non pharmacological therapies (cognitive training and reminiscence therapy) will improve the cognitive function of patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) or at least delay its deterioration. In addition, the investigators hypothesize that using the computerized systems will result in improved well-being of the patients and their main caregivers / family members and in improved patient-caregiver and patient-family relations.

>>NCT01552265
This study was planned 1) to identify individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) who convert to Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and 2) to explore factors associated with the conversion.

>>NCT01609335
Biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) occupy an essential place in recently formulated diagnostic criteria for AD where their role is to identify the pathophysiological processes underlying cognitive impairment or to predict time to dementia. Three of these biomarkers are brain imaging tests (amyloid PET, fludeoxyglucose (FDG) PET and structural MRI). In order to effectively use AD biomarkers for diagnostic and prognostic purposes, continuous values much be divided into normal and abnormal ranges. This requires that a cut point(s) be established in the continuous distribution of values for each biomarker.
 The investigators objective in this proposal is to obtain imaging biomarker data in a group of individuals who are appropriate for establishing normative values for AD biomarkers. The investigators believe the most valid approach to establishing biomarker cut points is to base them on the upper bound of the range observed in young to early-middle-age subjects in whom the presence of occult AD pathology is extremely unlikely. Based on a large volume of community-based autopsy data, that upper age limit would be about 50 years old. The lower age bound for a group of subjects used to establish normative AD biomarker values would have to be based on considerations of brain maturation, which may continue into the middle- to late-20s. Thus, taking the above into consideration, the ideal age range for establishing normative AD imaging biomarker data (amyloid PET, FDG PET and structural MRI) may be ages 30-49 years old.

>>NCT02733939
This randomized controlled trial aims to recruit a total of 320 dyads composed by persons with dementia living in community settings and their primary informal caregivers. In the intervention group, persons with dementia will have a home monitoring kit installed in the household while participants in the control group will receive their usual care. The kit includes home leaving sensors, smoke and water leak sensors, bed sensors as well as automatic lights that monitor the individual's behavior. Alerts (text message and/or phone call) will be sent to the caregiver if anything unusual occurs. All study participants will receive three home visits by project administrators that have received project specific training in order to harmonize data collection. These will take place at enrollment and 3 and 12 months following installation of the home kits. At every home visit, a standardized questionnaire will be administered to all study participants to assess their health, quality of life and resource utilization. The primary outcome of this trial is the amount of informal care support provided by primary informal caregivers to the Person with Dementia. This randomized controlled trial aims to recruit a total of 320 dyads composed by persons with dementia living in community settings and their primary informal caregivers. In the intervention group, persons with dementia will have a home monitoring kit installed in the household while participants in the control group will receive their usual care. The kit includes home leaving sensors, smoke and water leak sensors, bed sensors as well as automatic lights that monitor the individual's behavior. Alerts (text message and/or phone call) will be sent to the caregiver if anything unusual occurs. All study participants will receive three home visits by project administrators that have received project specific training in order to harmonize data collection. These will take place at enrollment and 3 and 12 months following installation of the home kits. At every home visit, a standardized questionnaire will be administered to all study participants to assess their health, quality of life and resource utilization. The primary outcome of this trial is the amount of informal care support provided by primary informal caregivers to the Person with Dementia.

>>NCT01940952
The purpose of this study is to determine whether Zydena (Udenafil) has positive effect on cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 This study is a randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled multicenter study.

>>NCT01608061
The primary objective of this feasibility study is to evaluate the safety of DBS-f in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease by assessing all device and/or therapy related adverse events. The secondary objective is to preliminarily estimate the treatment effect size on the outcomes of interest at 12 months post-randomization. The objectives do not involve formal tests of hypotheses.

>>NCT00766363
This study is being conducted to determine the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK) of three different doses of an investigational medication, EVP-6124, in individuals with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who are also taking an Alzheimer's medication (AChEI [acetylcholinesterase inhibitor]: either donepezil or rivastigmine). In addition, PK of AChEI medications will be assessed. Cognitive function will be evaluated on an exploratory basis. This study is being conducted to determine the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK) of three different doses of an investigational medication, EVP-6124, in individuals with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who are also taking an Alzheimer's medication (AChEI [acetylcholinesterase inhibitor]: either donepezil or rivastigmine). In addition, PK of AChEI medications will be assessed. Cognitive function will be evaluated on an exploratory basis.

>>NCT00479557
To assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of ACC-001, an investigational active immunization, in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00260624
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of escitalopram (Lexapro) using 10 or 20 mg daily in patients with Alzheimer's disease who are also experiencing agitation. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of escitalopram (Lexapro) using 10 or 20 mg daily in patients with Alzheimer's disease who are also experiencing agitation.

>>NCT02005380
The focus of this work is to explore the use of modern mobile technology to enable people with Alzheimer's disease to improve their abilities to perform activities of daily living and hence to promote independence and participation in social activities. This work also aims at reducing the burden on caregivers by increasing the AD patients' sense of competence and ability to handle behavior problems. The focus of this work is to explore the use of modern mobile technology to enable people with Alzheimer's disease to improve their abilities to perform activities of daily living and hence to promote independence and participation in social activities. This work also aims at reducing the burden on caregivers by increasing the AD patients' sense of competence and ability to handle behavior problems.

>>NCT00478205
The purpose of this study is to compare 23 mg donepezil sustained release (SR) to the currently marketed formulation of 10 mg donepezil immediate release (IR) in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to compare 23 mg donepezil sustained release (SR) to the currently marketed formulation of 10 mg donepezil immediate release (IR) in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00087789
This is a Phase I clinical study to assess the safety, tolerability and biologic activity of in vivo AAV-mediated delivery of CERE-110. Up to 12 subjects will receive open label CERE-110 in dose-escalating fashion. All subjects will receive bilateral, stereotactic injections of CERE-110 for a total of four (Dose A and B) and six (Dose C) injections to target the basal forebrain region of the brain containing the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM). All study participants will be observed for a 24-month period and then followed annually.

>>NCT00711139
The purpose of this study is to assess the long-term tolerability and -safety of AFFITOPE AD01 applied during AFFiRiS 001.

>>NCT00687141
The primary purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and tolerability of AZD0328 following once-daily dosing for 13 days in elderly healthy volunteers and to define maximum tolerated dose.

>>NCT01689233
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of TRx0237 in the treatment of subjects with mild Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00384423
This is a study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of PRX-03140 administered orally once daily for 14 days in subjects with mild Alzheimer's Disease who are using a stable, well-tolerated 10 mg dose of Aricept (donepezil) but continue to experience worsening AD symptoms.

>>NCT00531804
This study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of R1450 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer Disease. Patients will be randomized to receive either R1450 or placebo by intravenous infusion for a total of 7 doses. The starting dose will be escalated in subsequent cohorts of patients in an adaptive manner, after a satisfactory assessment of safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of the previous dose. The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months and the target sample size is <100 individuals.

>>NCT00675090
This is a safety and tolerability study to investigate the effect of GSK239512 on mild to moderate Alzheimers disease patients. The dose of GSK239512 will be titrated to reach the most well tolerated dose in the patients.

>>NCT02509117
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK and PD of PF-06751979 following oral doses in healthy adult and healthy elderly subjects.

>>NCT01565369
The purpose of this study is re-read of brain amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) scans acquired in previous florbetapir F 18 clinical studies by readers trained using updated reading methodology. The scans in this study came from subjects who had an autopsy to reveal the subject's true amyloid status.

>>NCT02349191
This study is a prospective, single arm, non-randomized, interventional study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Omental transposition (OT) in subjects with early stage AD.
 Within-subjects (repeated-measures) design will be utilized to compare follow-up outcomes to baseline.
 The following assessments will be performed at baseline, then at 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months following surgery:.
 - Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA).
 - Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognition (ADAS-Cog).
 - General Practitioner Assessment of Cognition (GPCOG).
 - Eight-item Informant Interview to Differentiate Aging and Dementia (AD8) Subjects who have early stage AD confirmed by a neuropsychological test (MoCA) and who are healthy enough to undergo surgery.
 The experimental procedure to be performed is omental transposition (OT) surgery. It will be performed as a laparoscopic or open procedure for omental lengthening and an open procedure for brain access, with a general surgeon performing the omental lengthening/tunneling and a neurosurgeon performing brain access/brain biopsy/omental placement on brain.
 Up to twenty-five (25) subjects, with the first 5 subjects being part of a learning curve group and the next 20 subjects being part of the experimental group.
 The duration of each subject's participation will be approximately 25 months from screening through the 24 month follow-up visit. This study is a prospective, single arm, non-randomized, interventional study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Omental transposition (OT) in subjects with early stage AD.
 Within-subjects (repeated-measures) design will be utilized to compare follow-up outcomes to baseline.
 The following assessments will be performed at baseline, then at 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months following surgery:.
 - Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA).
 - Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognition (ADAS-Cog).
 - General Practitioner Assessment of Cognition (GPCOG).
 - Eight-item Informant Interview to Differentiate Aging and Dementia (AD8) Subjects who have early stage AD confirmed by a neuropsychological test (MoCA) and who are healthy enough to undergo surgery.
 The experimental procedure to be performed is omental transposition (OT) surgery. It will be performed as a laparoscopic or open procedure for omental lengthening and an open procedure for brain access, with a general surgeon performing the omental lengthening/tunneling and a neurosurgeon performing brain access/brain biopsy/omental placement on brain.
 Up to twenty-five (25) subjects, with the first 5 subjects being part of a learning curve group and the next 20 subjects being part of the experimental group.
 The duration of each subject's participation will be approximately 25 months from screening through the 24 month follow-up visit.

>>NCT00074529
An investigational drug (MK0677) will be studied to determine whether it helps the memory and cognition of patients with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02702817
Two-year double-masked trial of over-the-counter dosage of naproxen sodium vs placebo in 200 cognitively normal participants with a parental or multiplex first-degree family history Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. Primary outcomes are decline in cognitive function and slope of change in a summary Alzheimer Progression Score derived from serial assessment of neuroimaging, biochemical and sensori-neural biomarker indicators of pre-clinical disease -- all believed likely to reflect progress of preclinical AD in this high risk cohort. Approximately 2 - 3 of participants have volunteered also for serial lumbar punctures for analysis of cerebrospinal fluid. A two-year off-treatment delayed-washout phase is planned to examine sustained treatment effects and evidence of disease modification. Two-year double-masked trial of over-the-counter dosage of naproxen sodium vs placebo in 200 cognitively normal participants with a parental or multiplex first-degree family history Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. Primary outcomes are decline in cognitive function and slope of change in a summary Alzheimer Progression Score derived from serial assessment of neuroimaging, biochemical and sensori-neural biomarker indicators of pre-clinical disease -- all believed likely to reflect progress of preclinical AD in this high risk cohort. Approximately 2 - 3 of participants have volunteered also for serial lumbar punctures for analysis of cerebrospinal fluid. A two-year off-treatment delayed-washout phase is planned to examine sustained treatment effects and evidence of disease modification.

>>NCT00065689
The purpose of this study is to determine whether bright light improves the sleep, mood and behavior of persons with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (AD) who live in long-term care settings and, if so, to determine the best timing for the light therapy. The light levels being used in the study have been shown to improve depression in persons with seasonal affective disorder (SAD) and to relieve sleep problems in persons with jet lag and other body rhythm disturbances. Because persons with AD often will not remain still in front of a fluorescent panel, this project has involved renovations in the study units that provide for even, regulated, high-intensity light in all public areas of the study settings. The purpose of this study is to determine whether bright light improves the sleep, mood and behavior of persons with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (AD) who live in long-term care settings and, if so, to determine the best timing for the light therapy. The light levels being used in the study have been shown to improve depression in persons with seasonal affective disorder (SAD) and to relieve sleep problems in persons with jet lag and other body rhythm disturbances. Because persons with AD often will not remain still in front of a fluorescent panel, this project has involved renovations in the study units that provide for even, regulated, high-intensity light in all public areas of the study settings.

>>NCT00409279
The goal of this project is to test an intervention designed to reduce the incidence and magnitude of the negative effects, specifically stress, anxiety and depression, frequently experienced by adult children who are caregivers of a parent with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The goal of this project is to test an intervention designed to reduce the incidence and magnitude of the negative effects, specifically stress, anxiety and depression, frequently experienced by adult children who are caregivers of a parent with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01727622
The purpose of this study is to determine the value of Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) MRI, a measure of blood flow to the brain, in Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and compare it to existing measures. In particular, the investigators will compare ASL MRI to Positron Emission Tomography (PET/CT), which measures brain metabolism reflecting how well cells in a patient's brain are functioning. In addition, the investigators will assess the relationship of these measures to specific protein levels associated with Alzheimer's Disease in the patient's cerebrospinal fluid (the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord) obtained by lumbar puncture. By comparing the information that is available from these procedures to the patient's performance on cognitive tests, the investigators hope to learn which procedures most accurately reflect and assist in determination of the potential causes of cognitive difficulties that arise with MCI and thus, which are most useful in the clinical setting. In particular, PET scans have been found to be very useful in diagnosis of MCI and Alzheimer's Disease but the investigators want to find out if they can get the same or better, information from an ASL MRI scan, which is less expensive and easier to acquire.

>>NCT01400542
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is much more common in the elderly than in the young; the latest studies show prevalence between 45% and 62% in individuals over 60. It is even higher in patients with dementia such as Alzheimer patients.
 Several trials in elderly patients showed modified cognitive functions, particularly executive and attentional functions, in patients with respiratory sleep disorder. However the benefit of CPAP (Continuous Positive Airway Pressure) ventilation for Alzheimer patients is still controversial, as there are few studies documenting its effects on dementia patients' cognitive abilities and clinicians appear reluctant to prescribe this type of treatment.
 The investigators must keep in mind that Alzheimer patients suffer significant sleep disorders; advanced- stage patients spend 40% of the night awake and are drowsy a large part of the day. In dementia patients, sleep disorder is a major cause of hospitalization and institutionalization. The prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in this population is estimated at over 50% and appears to be higher the more advanced the dementia. Trials on obstructive sleep apnea syndromes in Alzheimer patients show significatively improved scores on the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), as well as satisfactory treatment tolerance. However, any impact on cognitive abilities has yet to be demonstrated.
 In addition, cardiovascular pathologies such as arterial hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias and strokes are strongly correlated to OSA. In light of its consequences on morbidity and mortality, OSA should be considered a public health issue.
 In this context, the investigators wish to address the impact of CPAP treatment implementation on the cognitive parameters of patients diagnosed with OSA, particularly on their executive functions. This should provide evidence for mid-term assessment of the benefits of CPAP in caring for elderly patients with dementia.
 In light of the prevalence of obstructive sleep pathologies in elderly patients reported in various studies and of the potential impact of CPAP treatment on cognitive abilities, the investigators propose a study to evaluate the impact of OSA treatment on elderly Alzheimer patients' cognitive abilities, particularly on their executive functions.
 Executive functions are a rather heterogenous group of high-level cognitive processes which enable individuals to adopt a flexible, context-appropriate behavior. They also include planning abilities, working memory, cognitive control, abstract thought, rule learning, selective attention, motor response selection, etc... Executive functions are mainly associated to the functioning of the brain's frontal lobes, although subcortical structures also play a role. When the executive functions are affected by disease, daily life is significantly impeded as the individual becomes unable to perform complex tasks or regulate his/her behavior. Many tests can help evaluate these functions in dementia patients. A number of "ecological" tests, such as the zoo map test from the Behavioural Assessment of the Dysexecutive Syndrome (BADS) arsenal, are quite relevant for evaluating executive functions.
 This project aims to improve the daily life of Alzheimer patients with sleep apnea by improving their executive cognitive functions through CPAP treatment.
 According to the Paquid's trial, there are 12400 Alzheimer patients in the French Loire department. [27] The study population will therefore be recruited in the "La Charit" center of CHU Saint-Etienne. The target population is older individuals (>= 65) suffering from cognitive disorders similar to Alzheimer's disease.
 OSA will be diagnosed based on polysomnography, on an outpatient basis. Apnea patients will receive CPAP treatment for 4 months, which is the minimum duration required to implement and accept treatment and to measure its impact on patients' neurocognitive abilities. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is much more common in the elderly than in the young; the latest studies show prevalence between 45% and 62% in individuals over 60. It is even higher in patients with dementia such as Alzheimer patients.
 Several trials in elderly patients showed modified cognitive functions, particularly executive and attentional functions, in patients with respiratory sleep disorder. However the benefit of CPAP (Continuous Positive Airway Pressure) ventilation for Alzheimer patients is still controversial, as there are few studies documenting its effects on dementia patients' cognitive abilities and clinicians appear reluctant to prescribe this type of treatment.
 The investigators must keep in mind that Alzheimer patients suffer significant sleep disorders; advanced- stage patients spend 40% of the night awake and are drowsy a large part of the day. In dementia patients, sleep disorder is a major cause of hospitalization and institutionalization. The prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) in this population is estimated at over 50% and appears to be higher the more advanced the dementia. Trials on obstructive sleep apnea syndromes in Alzheimer patients show significatively improved scores on the apnea-hypopnea index (AHI), as well as satisfactory treatment tolerance. However, any impact on cognitive abilities has yet to be demonstrated.
 In addition, cardiovascular pathologies such as arterial hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias and strokes are strongly correlated to OSA. In light of its consequences on morbidity and mortality, OSA should be considered a public health issue.
 In this context, the investigators wish to address the impact of CPAP treatment implementation on the cognitive parameters of patients diagnosed with OSA, particularly on their executive functions. This should provide evidence for mid-term assessment of the benefits of CPAP in caring for elderly patients with dementia.
 In light of the prevalence of obstructive sleep pathologies in elderly patients reported in various studies and of the potential impact of CPAP treatment on cognitive abilities, the investigators propose a study to evaluate the impact of OSA treatment on elderly Alzheimer patients' cognitive abilities, particularly on their executive functions.
 Executive functions are a rather heterogenous group of high-level cognitive processes which enable individuals to adopt a flexible, context-appropriate behavior. They also include planning abilities, working memory, cognitive control, abstract thought, rule learning, selective attention, motor response selection, etc... Executive functions are mainly associated to the functioning of the brain's frontal lobes, although subcortical structures also play a role. When the executive functions are affected by disease, daily life is significantly impeded as the individual becomes unable to perform complex tasks or regulate his/her behavior. Many tests can help evaluate these functions in dementia patients. A number of "ecological" tests, such as the zoo map test from the Behavioural Assessment of the Dysexecutive Syndrome (BADS) arsenal, are quite relevant for evaluating executive functions.
 This project aims to improve the daily life of Alzheimer patients with sleep apnea by improving their executive cognitive functions through CPAP treatment.
 According to the Paquid's trial, there are 12400 Alzheimer patients in the French Loire department. [27] The study population will therefore be recruited in the "La Charit" center of CHU Saint-Etienne. The target population is older individuals (>= 65) suffering from cognitive disorders similar to Alzheimer's disease.
 OSA will be diagnosed based on polysomnography, on an outpatient basis. Apnea patients will receive CPAP treatment for 4 months, which is the minimum duration required to implement and accept treatment and to measure its impact on patients' neurocognitive abilities.

>>NCT00757939
The aim of the study is to determine if regional cerebral blood flow, measured by dynamic arterial spin labeling (dASL), can be a biomarker for stage of Alzheimer's disease. The study is designed to be conducted in 2 parts in participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease and participants with normal cognition. Various imaging studies will be done using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) along with neurocognitive assessments. Participants who meet the study-entry criteria will have up to 8 study visits. Repeat imaging studies may be required if the initial data are incomplete or un-interpretable. The maximum number of PET scans during the study will be limited to four.

>>NCT01659398
The aim of this study is to investigate whether enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) therapy for 7 consecutive weeks will improve cerebral blood flow and possibly over time enhance or slow down breakdown of cognitive function in patients diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

>>NCT02267486
Examine the construct validity, the group discriminant ability and the inter-rater reliability of a novel dementia rating scale (QuQu scale: QUick QUestion scale) candidate for the evaluation of patients with Alzheimer Dementia (AD).

>>NCT00438724
The purpose of this study is to test the efficacy of a new couples counseling intervention for people recently diagnosed with early Alzheimer's disease and their spouses. The study hypothesis is that counseling the couple shortly after the diagnosis and while the functional impact of the illness is still relatively mild, will have a significant impact on their ability to provide support for each other. The purpose of this study is to test the efficacy of a new couples counseling intervention for people recently diagnosed with early Alzheimer's disease and their spouses. The study hypothesis is that counseling the couple shortly after the diagnosis and while the functional impact of the illness is still relatively mild, will have a significant impact on their ability to provide support for each other.

>>NCT00987090
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is usually associated with aging, age being the principal identified risk factor. However, younger subjects also develop AD and the prevalence of early onset AD is unknown. It is estimated that about 30 000 subjects develop symptoms of AD before the age of 65 in France. There is evidence that early onset AD differs from AD in older patients. In particular, clinical and neuroimaging studies suggest early involvement of neocortical brain regions and their functions in early onset AD, while mediotemporal areas and memory might be more involved in late onset AD. These differences could partly explain the atypical clinical and imaging features of younger patients, the diagnostic difficulties in these patients and the specific problems related to medical care of this age group. The present study uses a multidisciplinary approach with longitudinal followup in order to establish the impact of age on the clinical and neuroimaging picture of sporadic AD in a multicentric setting. Another aim of the project is to describe for each age group and in particular for the younger patient group, the functional impact of disability in everyday life on both, patients and caregivers.

>>NCT00911807
The study was performed to compare the safety and efficacy of Cerebrolysin (10 mililiters [ml]), Aricept (10 miligrams [mg]) and a combination of both treatments on cognitive performance and global function in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease (AD). It should also be assessed if the treatments have a positive effect on activities of daily living and neuropsychiatric symptoms.
 Oral treatment with Aricept or Placebo was given once daily throughout the study. Intravenous treatment with Cerebrolysin or Placebo was given once daily for 5 days per week during week 1 to 4 and during week 13 to 16 of the study. During the study patients had six visits at the hospital for evaluation. The study was performed to compare the safety and efficacy of Cerebrolysin (10 mililiters [ml]), Aricept (10 miligrams [mg]) and a combination of both treatments on cognitive performance and global function in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease (AD). It should also be assessed if the treatments have a positive effect on activities of daily living and neuropsychiatric symptoms.
 Oral treatment with Aricept or Placebo was given once daily throughout the study. Intravenous treatment with Cerebrolysin or Placebo was given once daily for 5 days per week during week 1 to 4 and during week 13 to 16 of the study. During the study patients had six visits at the hospital for evaluation.

>>NCT01723670
To evaluate the effects of multiple dose regimens of CHF 5074 administered once per day up to 2 years on potential biomarkers of neurodegeneration in subjects with mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT01430286
The aim of the project is to evaluate the efficacy of a web-based psycho-educational programme designed to support informal caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).This program focuses on information about the illness, her progression, how to prevent psychological strain using anticipation and relaxation techniques and providing a virtual space (forum) to discuss with other caregivers. The aim of the project is to evaluate the efficacy of a web-based psycho-educational programme designed to support informal caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).This program focuses on information about the illness, her progression, how to prevent psychological strain using anticipation and relaxation techniques and providing a virtual space (forum) to discuss with other caregivers.

>>NCT00261573
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) compared to placebo in the treatment of patients with dementia related to cerebrovascular disease (vascular dementia) or dementia related to Alzheimer's disease with cerebrovascular disease ("mixed" dementia). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) compared to placebo in the treatment of patients with dementia related to cerebrovascular disease (vascular dementia) or dementia related to Alzheimer's disease with cerebrovascular disease ("mixed" dementia).

>>NCT00246896
This is a clinical trial to test the effectiveness of current guideline for the care of older adults with Alzheimer's disease. The study focuses on the primary care setting using a nurse care manager to facilitate guideline-level care. We are hypothesizing that patients who receive guideline-level care will have fewer behavioral problems than those who receive the usual care provided in primary care settings This is a clinical trial to test the effectiveness of current guideline for the care of older adults with Alzheimer's disease. The study focuses on the primary care setting using a nurse care manager to facilitate guideline-level care. We are hypothesizing that patients who receive guideline-level care will have fewer behavioral problems than those who receive the usual care provided in primary care settings.

>>NCT02802371
Caring for patients with Alzheimer Disease or Related Disorders (ADRD) is accompanied with a caregiver burden that increases with the progression of the disease. This burden can have physical, psychological, emotional, social and financial issue on the informal caregivers who are often represented as hidden secondary patients. They frequently have a higher risk of developing mood disorders as depression, anxiety, stress, sleep disorders and a lower quality of life associated with a greater use of psychotropic drugs. They also incur higher risk of heart disease and mortality. The embrittlement of the caregiver is a major factor of early institutionalization of patient. In the PIXEL study, the mean age of the men caregivers was 73.9 years and 64.8 for the women caregivers. Elderly themselves, especially spouses, the informal caregivers are also exposed to common chronic diseases and associated polypharmacy with a higher risk of developing drug-related problems due to aging and negligence of their own health care. These risks are increased mainly in the elderly because of changes in pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters related to aging, acute or chronic diseases and the potentially inappropriate prescription (PIP). Previous studies have shown the effectiveness and positive impact of optimization of the therapeutics by a clinical pharmacist on the reduction of drug-related problems, length of hospital stay, readmission rates, quality of life and mortality. The patient's medication management is usually delegated to the informal caregiver, who must also manage his own treatment. The caregiver may face difficulties with therapeutics (e.g., inappropriate dosage form, adverse effects and patient refusal) that could impact on its compliance with treatment or that of his relative. No previous study has evaluated the impact of pharmaceutical collaborative care including personalized interview with a clinical pharmacist and optimization of drug prescribing among patients with ADRD and their caregivers.
 However, many studies have assessed the effectiveness of non-pharmacological interventions on caregiver burden, mood disorders and the patient institutionalization. Meta-analysis showed a moderate improvement of the caregiver burden.
 The main objective of the PHARMAID study is to measure the impact of personalized pharmaceutical collaborative care integrated to a multidisciplinary psychosocial program on the burden of ADRD caregivers and assessed at 18-month follow-up.

>>NCT02804789
Brain changes associated with Alzheimer's disease may precede symptoms of Alzheimer's Dementia by over 20 years. The Investigators hope to be able to identify Alzheimer's disease at its very earliest stages when in theory treatments are most likely to be successful in preventing further spread of the disease in the brain and causing dementia. The aim of EPAD programme is to develop new treatments more quickly to prevent Alzheimer's dementia. A major component of the EPAD programme is the EPAD Longitudinal Cohort Study which can provide subjects for the EPAD trial as well as data to improve understanding of disease before dementia develops.
 The Investigators will approach a broad range of people over the age of 50 who have previously taken part in various research studies and consented to being recontacted for further research. Participants will be asked questions to assess their memory and other cognitive function. The participants will also undertake a brain scan, provide a sample of spinal fluid, blood, urine and saliva to look at markers in these bodily fluids that may change in Alzheimer's disease. The Investigators will then follow these participants until December 2019 repeating these tests annually. This will be called the EPAD Longitudinal Cohort Study (EPAD LCS). The main reasons for EPAD developing a cohort are to help the Investigators understand more about what happens to people before dementia develops and to help recruit people more quickly into the EPAD trials of new medications or other interventions expected to prevent dementia.
 People in the EPAD LCS may be invited to take part in the EPAD Proof of Concept prevention studies to see if interventions can modify the probability of developing dementia or cognitive problems (this will be subject to separate ethics approval and consent). Together EPAD LCS and EPAD PoC make up the full EPAD Programme. Brain changes associated with Alzheimer's disease may precede symptoms of Alzheimer's Dementia by over 20 years. The Investigators hope to be able to identify Alzheimer's disease at its very earliest stages when in theory treatments are most likely to be successful in preventing further spread of the disease in the brain and causing dementia. The aim of EPAD programme is to develop new treatments more quickly to prevent Alzheimer's dementia. A major component of the EPAD programme is the EPAD Longitudinal Cohort Study which can provide subjects for the EPAD trial as well as data to improve understanding of disease before dementia develops.
 The Investigators will approach a broad range of people over the age of 50 who have previously taken part in various research studies and consented to being recontacted for further research. Participants will be asked questions to assess their memory and other cognitive function. The participants will also undertake a brain scan, provide a sample of spinal fluid, blood, urine and saliva to look at markers in these bodily fluids that may change in Alzheimer's disease. The Investigators will then follow these participants until December 2019 repeating these tests annually. This will be called the EPAD Longitudinal Cohort Study (EPAD LCS). The main reasons for EPAD developing a cohort are to help the Investigators understand more about what happens to people before dementia develops and to help recruit people more quickly into the EPAD trials of new medications or other interventions expected to prevent dementia.
 People in the EPAD LCS may be invited to take part in the EPAD Proof of Concept prevention studies to see if interventions can modify the probability of developing dementia or cognitive problems (this will be subject to separate ethics approval and consent). Together EPAD LCS and EPAD PoC make up the full EPAD Programme.

>>NCT02226835
Background:.
 - Alzheimer s disease affects the brain and causes memory and thinking problems in older people. Macular degeneration (MD) is an eye condition. It is the leading reason that people over age 55 in the United States lose their central vision. Central vision is important for seeing fine details and for tasks like reading and driving. A feature of Alzheimer s disease is plaques in the brain. A feature of age-related MD is deposits in the retina in the eye. Researchers want to learn more about these diseases and find out if they are related.
 Objective:.
 - To see whether there is a relationship between Alzheimer s disease and age-related macular degeneration.
 Eligibility:.
 - People with or without Alzheimer s disease enrolled in another study. Participants must have someone to help them take part in this study.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be screened through the other study. They will have 1 visit. The tests will take about 3 hours.
 - Participants will answer questions about their medical and eye history.
 - Participants will have an eye exam to test how well they see. Their eye pressure will be measured and their eye movements will be checked.
 - Participants will get eye drops to dilate their pupils. Researchers will take pictures of the retina and the inside of the eye. Researchers may measure the thickness of the retina.
 - Participants will continue to receive care from their regular eye doctor during and after the study. Background:.
 - Alzheimer s disease affects the brain and causes memory and thinking problems in older people. Macular degeneration (MD) is an eye condition. It is the leading reason that people over age 55 in the United States lose their central vision. Central vision is important for seeing fine details and for tasks like reading and driving. A feature of Alzheimer s disease is plaques in the brain. A feature of age-related MD is deposits in the retina in the eye. Researchers want to learn more about these diseases and find out if they are related.
 Objective:.
 - To see whether there is a relationship between Alzheimer s disease and age-related macular degeneration.
 Eligibility:.
 - People with or without Alzheimer s disease enrolled in another study. Participants must have someone to help them take part in this study.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be screened through the other study. They will have 1 visit. The tests will take about 3 hours.
 - Participants will answer questions about their medical and eye history.
 - Participants will have an eye exam to test how well they see. Their eye pressure will be measured and their eye movements will be checked.
 - Participants will get eye drops to dilate their pupils. Researchers will take pictures of the retina and the inside of the eye. Researchers may measure the thickness of the retina.
 - Participants will continue to receive care from their regular eye doctor during and after the study.

>>NCT00392912
Treatment with testosterone can improve performance on tests of spatial ability in men with low testosterone levels and Alzheimer's disease. Improved performance on these tests may mean an improved ability to get around in one's environment without getting lost or injured. This could have a positive impact on both patients and those who care for them. We will investigate what areas of the brain are involved in these improvements in spatial ability. This will be done using a PET scan, which creates a 3-dimensional image of the brain that can allow us to see how the brain functions. Treatment with testosterone can improve performance on tests of spatial ability in men with low testosterone levels and Alzheimer's disease. Improved performance on these tests may mean an improved ability to get around in one's environment without getting lost or injured. This could have a positive impact on both patients and those who care for them. We will investigate what areas of the brain are involved in these improvements in spatial ability. This will be done using a PET scan, which creates a 3-dimensional image of the brain that can allow us to see how the brain functions.

>>NCT02045056
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of gemfibrozil in modulating microRNA-107 levels for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease in subjects with intact cognition and mild cognitive impairment The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of gemfibrozil in modulating microRNA-107 levels for the prevention of Alzheimer's disease in subjects with intact cognition and mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT02103894
The goal of this study is to assess [18F]MNI-777 PET imaging as a tool to detect tau pathology in the brain of individuals who carry a clinical diagnosis of a tauopathy, including: Alzheimer's Disease (AD),Parkinson's disease (PD) Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) and Frontal Temporal Dementia (FTD) and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects.

>>NCT01672827
To Evaluate the Effectiveness of an Electronic Training Program for Orienting and Interpreting [18F]flutemetamol Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Images.

>>NCT01537757
This study will assess the pharmacokinetics of MK-8931, a -secretase inhibitor, in participants with renal insufficiency. In Part 1 of the study, pharmacokinetics of MK-8931 in participants with severe renal disease and in healthy matched control participants will be studied. If data from Part 1 confirms that severe renal impairment does not alter the pharmacokinetics of MK-8931 to the extent requiring dosage adjustment, then no further study will be required and Part 2 will be optional. If the data does not support this conclusion, then Part 2 will be conducted to study the pharmacokinetics of MK-8931 in participants with moderate and mild renal impairment compared to healthy matched controls.

>>NCT00809510
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of ABT-089 in adults with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00645190
The purpose of this randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, flexible dosage, multicenter study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of galantamine tablet (16-24mg/day) for 16 weeks in the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) comparing with Donepezil. The purpose of this randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, flexible dosage, multicenter study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of galantamine tablet (16-24mg/day) for 16 weeks in the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) comparing with Donepezil.

>>NCT00581867
To determine which parts of the brain are involved in insulin-related memory improvement in early Alzheimer's disease and cognitively normal older adults. To determine which parts of the brain are involved in insulin-related memory improvement in early Alzheimer's disease and cognitively normal older adults.

>>NCT01782248
The aim of this study is to characterize the deficit in critical components of personal identity (self-consciousness and social cognition) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and fronto-temporal lobar dementia (FTLD), compared to healthy elderly, combining a neuropsychology and multi-podal neuroimaging study.
 We posit that the alteration of some aspects of self-consciousness (autobiographical memory, nosognosia, metacognition) and social cognition (theory of mind and facial) results in personality changes in the patients, primarily due to the alteration of self-consciousness in AD and to social cognition in FTLD.

>>NCT00192816
The purpose of this study is to determine response to pain in Alzheimer's disease.We plan to study the effect of diffuse noxious inhibitory controls(counterirritation phenomenon)and the autonomic nervous system reaction(reflected by the heart rate) in Alzheimer's disease. The study's hypothesis is that pain perception and autonomic nervous system reaction are altered in Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02337907
The study is designed to compare the effects of BI 409306 compared to placebo in patients with cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00112073
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of AAB-001 passive immunization in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of AAB-001 passive immunization in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00069849
The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and efficacy of 2 mg, 4 mg and 20 mg of ABT-089 BID to placebo in adults with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01826110
The purpose of this study is to investigate the radiotracer [11C] PIB in participants with probably Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and healthy age-matched controls. The purpose of this study is to investigate the radiotracer [11C] PIB in participants with probably Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and healthy age-matched controls.

>>NCT02079246
To evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of idalopirdine (Lu AE58054) as adjunctive therapy to donepezil in patients with mild-moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD). To evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of idalopirdine (Lu AE58054) as adjunctive therapy to donepezil in patients with mild-moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT02327182
The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 2 fixed dose of MT-4666 administered once daily for 52 weeks with or without receiving a concomitant acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs), in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT02576639
The study will determine the safety of CNP520 in healthy elderly over 3 months. Data relevant for Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic modeling will be obtained in order to define the target dose in subsequent efficacy studies.

>>NCT02868905
The purpose of this study is to compare average methylation of epigenetic markers on genomic DNA and some genes (APP, BACE, LRP, SorL1) involved in cerebral amyloid homeostasis:.
 - Of obese young adults and healthy young adults.
 - Of obese young adults and individuals affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD) having been obese at young adult age (<50 years old) or individuals affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD) having never been obese.
 The secondary purpose is to determine if there is an association between the frequency of these epigenetic markers and elements associated to the metabolic syndrome (lipidic and glycemic analysis, leptinemia, inflammation markers) and clinical ones (visceral fat mass, body mass index) in young adults.

>>NCT01339195
Projections from epidemiological studies suggest that, among the Western adult population, one in three will present a cerebrovascular accident (stroke), severe cognitive disorders or both. To better diagnose the Vascular Cognitive Impairment, new standards were developed by a North America working group which are under validation. It is essential to adapt these standard for French-speaking population and especially to define cutoff scores of the cognitive battery to determine cognitive deficit.
 The investigators propose a study coordinated by the University-Hospital of Amiens for french speaking centers. This study will investigate this battery with 906 controls to define the standards and 302 stroke affected patients to define the frequency and cognitive mechanisms. This step is essential for people to benefit from these new standards. Projections from epidemiological studies suggest that, among the Western adult population, one in three will present a cerebrovascular accident (stroke), severe cognitive disorders or both. To better diagnose the Vascular Cognitive Impairment, new standards were developed by a North America working group which are under validation. It is essential to adapt these standard for French-speaking population and especially to define cutoff scores of the cognitive battery to determine cognitive deficit.
 The investigators propose a study coordinated by the University-Hospital of Amiens for french speaking centers. This study will investigate this battery with 906 controls to define the standards and 302 stroke affected patients to define the frequency and cognitive mechanisms. This step is essential for people to benefit from these new standards.

>>NCT02289118
The central goal of this study is to determine and compare the similarities and differences in regional brain uptake of [18F]T807 in patients with typical Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Posterior Cortical Atrophy (PCA) and Logopenic Variant of Primary Progressive Aphasia (lvPPA). The investigators will correlate patterns of [18F]T807 binding with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based regional volumetric and cortical thickness measures. If cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) samples are not available, patients may be asked to get an optional lumbar puncture (LP) for additional comparisons. The investigators will recruit 20 participants, 45-70 years old, with clinical evidence of young onset focal dementia.

>>NCT00948259
The purpose of this study is to evaluate if 4 escalating doses during 20 weeks of NP031112 are safe and tolerated in patients with Alzheimers disease.

>>NCT00857233
The primary objective of the study was to examine the safety and tolerability of memantine in outpatients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's Disease. The primary objective of the study was to examine the safety and tolerability of memantine in outpatients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01584440
The objectives of the study are to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of AVP-923 compared to placebo, for the treatment of symptoms of agitation in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The objectives of the study are to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of AVP-923 compared to placebo, for the treatment of symptoms of agitation in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT01227564
This study in individuals with early Alzheimer's disease is designed to assess:(1) safety and tolerability (2) the capacity of ACC-001 and QS-21 adjuvant to reduce brain amyloid load as measured by positron emission tomography (PET) scans.

>>NCT02434718
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of single and multiple intravenous (IV) infusions of BIIB037 in Japanese participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The secondary objectives of this study are as follows: To evaluate the serum pharmacokinetics (PK) of BIIB037 after single and multiple intravenous (IV) infusions of BIIB037; To evaluate the effect of single and multiple IV infusions of BIIB037 on immunogenicity.

>>NCT01479855
The purpose of the study is to compare the concentrations of Vitamin B1 (thiamine), Vitamin B6 (pyridoxal-5-phosphate), folate, Vitamin B12 (cobalamin), Vitamin C (ascorbic acid), Vitamin A (retinol), Vitamin E (alfa-tocopherol), homocystein, uric acid, F2 8--isoprostane, 8-deoxyguanosine, retinoids, tau-protein and -amyloid in spinal fluid, metabolomics, proteomics, m-RNA for DNA repair enzymes and DNA in patients who suffer from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild dementia of Alzheimers type, with healthy controls.
 A second aim is to explore the association between vitamin and nutrient reductions, if any and cognitive function as well as vascular score and possible changes in the MRI. The purpose of the study is to compare the concentrations of Vitamin B1 (thiamine), Vitamin B6 (pyridoxal-5-phosphate), folate, Vitamin B12 (cobalamin), Vitamin C (ascorbic acid), Vitamin A (retinol), Vitamin E (alfa-tocopherol), homocystein, uric acid, F2 8--isoprostane, 8-deoxyguanosine, retinoids, tau-protein and -amyloid in spinal fluid, metabolomics, proteomics, m-RNA for DNA repair enzymes and DNA in patients who suffer from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild dementia of Alzheimers type, with healthy controls.
 A second aim is to explore the association between vitamin and nutrient reductions, if any and cognitive function as well as vascular score and possible changes in the MRI.

>>NCT02518412
The purpose of this study is to investigate transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) as a cognitive enhancer for patients with Alzheimer disease.
 Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a neuromodulation technique, that are applied to the brain by using two electrodes. These electrodes are placed on the scalp. The current is low intensity, usually 1-2 milliampere. tDCS may affect cognitive functions by increasing cortical excitability. tDCS is regarded as a safe treatment approach. In the present study, participants will undergo six stimulations. The effect of all stimulations swill be measured with neuropsychological testing before the first (pre) and after the sixth tDCS stimulation (post). The purpose of this study is to investigate transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) as a cognitive enhancer for patients with Alzheimer disease.
 Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a neuromodulation technique, that are applied to the brain by using two electrodes. These electrodes are placed on the scalp. The current is low intensity, usually 1-2 milliampere. tDCS may affect cognitive functions by increasing cortical excitability. tDCS is regarded as a safe treatment approach. In the present study, participants will undergo six stimulations. The effect of all stimulations swill be measured with neuropsychological testing before the first (pre) and after the sixth tDCS stimulation (post).

>>NCT00571025
The purpose of this study is to determine the characteristics of those who obtain genetic susceptibility testing for Alzheimer's disease with APOE disclosure and to study the psychological and behavioral consequences of providing this information. The purpose of this study is to determine the characteristics of those who obtain genetic susceptibility testing for Alzheimer's disease with APOE disclosure and to study the psychological and behavioral consequences of providing this information.

>>NCT01120002
A double blind, placebo-controlled randomized study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of orally administered Tamibarotene to patients of Alzheimer's Disease A double blind, placebo-controlled randomized study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of orally administered Tamibarotene to patients of Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01230853
The purpose of this study will be to evaluate the safety and tolerability of BAN2401 at sequentially ascending doses in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study will be to evaluate the safety and tolerability of BAN2401 at sequentially ascending doses in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT02228187
The primary objective is to examine the efficacy of 8-weeks of a locally developed brain-computer interface based system intervention for improving attention and memory in healthy elderly and those with age related cognitive decline. We hypothesize that elderly who have completed the training program will have significant improvement in their attention and memory compared to the controls, based on the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status. The primary objective is to examine the efficacy of 8-weeks of a locally developed brain-computer interface based system intervention for improving attention and memory in healthy elderly and those with age related cognitive decline. We hypothesize that elderly who have completed the training program will have significant improvement in their attention and memory compared to the controls, based on the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status.

>>NCT00909285
Current diagnosis of Alzheimer disease is made by clinical, neuropsychological and neuroimaging assessments. Routine structural neuroimaging evaluation is based on nonspecific features, such as atrophy, which is a late feature in the progression of the disease. Therefore, developing new approaches for early and specific recognition of Alzheimer disease at the prodromal stages is of crucial importance.
 In the present study the investigators would like to examine if combined treatment with TMS and cognitive training (CoTra) for several weeks can produce a sustained improvement in cognitive and behavioral symptomatology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. A number of in vivo neuroimaging techniques, which can be used to reliably and noninvasively assess aspects of neuroanatomy, chemistry, physiology and pathology, hold promise.

>>NCT00000174
This phase IIIb trial is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 36-month study comparing the length of time of progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in subjects taking Exelon vs. placebo. Exelon is currently under review with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease. The drug has been cleared for marketing in more than 40 countries for Alzheimer's disease to date, including all 15 member states of the European Union, New Zealand, Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.
 Each subject with MCI will be randomly assigned to treatment with either Exelon or placebo. Subjects assigned to Exelon will receive 1.5 to 6.0 mg bid (twice daily) (3.0 to 12 mg/day) for the majority of the study. At every regular visit scheduled every three months, patients will be given basic efficacy and safety assessments. These assessments will include evaluation of adverse events, vital signs, activities of daily living and clinical staging scales to determine if the subject may have converted to dementia.

>>NCT00000176
This is a three-year study to determine if estrogens can prevent memory loss and Alzheimer's disease in women with a family history of Alzheimer's disease. This is a three-year study to determine if estrogens can prevent memory loss and Alzheimer's disease in women with a family history of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00000177
Estrogen is a hormone that is dominant in the female reproductive system. In women, most estrogen is produced by the ovaries. Men produce estrogen by converting testosterone into estrogen. Because this hormone also has many beneficial effects on brain cells, it currently is being studied as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease. The enzyme that forms the neurotransmitter acetylcholine is promoted in the presence of estrogen. Several very small clinical studies have demonstrated improvement in cognitive function and mood measures in women with Alzheimer's disease who take estrogen.

>>NCT00000171
This protocol is a multicenter clinical trial of melatonin for sleep disturbances associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Frequent nocturnal awakening is a common behavioral symptom of AD. Nighttime wandering and agitated behavior may result in injuries and sleep disruption for caregivers. Alternatives are sorely needed to the currently available sleep medications that have marginal efficacy and serious side effects. Melatonin is a naturally occurring hormone secreted by the pineal gland. It has soporific effects with oral administration and is well tolerated. It enhances sleep in normal older people. Melatonin also may help sleep disturbances associated with AD; however, this remains to be proven. This protocol is a multicenter clinical trial of melatonin for sleep disturbances associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Frequent nocturnal awakening is a common behavioral symptom of AD. Nighttime wandering and agitated behavior may result in injuries and sleep disruption for caregivers. Alternatives are sorely needed to the currently available sleep medications that have marginal efficacy and serious side effects. Melatonin is a naturally occurring hormone secreted by the pineal gland. It has soporific effects with oral administration and is well tolerated. It enhances sleep in normal older people. Melatonin also may help sleep disturbances associated with AD; however, this remains to be proven.

>>NCT00000172
Galantamine is an experimental drug being evaluated in the United States for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Results from previous clinical trials suggest that galantamine may improve cognitive performance in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. It is not a cure for Alzheimer's disease. Nerve cells in the brain responsible for memory and cognitive function communicate using a chemical called acetylcholine. Research has shown that deterioration of cells that produce acetylcholine in the brain affects thought processes. Galantamine is thought to work in two ways to increase the amount of acetylcholine available in the brain. It inhibits an enzyme that breaks down acetylcholine and it also stimulates the nicotinic receptors in the brain to release more acetylcholine. Galantamine is an experimental drug being evaluated in the United States for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Results from previous clinical trials suggest that galantamine may improve cognitive performance in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. It is not a cure for Alzheimer's disease. Nerve cells in the brain responsible for memory and cognitive function communicate using a chemical called acetylcholine. Research has shown that deterioration of cells that produce acetylcholine in the brain affects thought processes. Galantamine is thought to work in two ways to increase the amount of acetylcholine available in the brain. It inhibits an enzyme that breaks down acetylcholine and it also stimulates the nicotinic receptors in the brain to release more acetylcholine.

>>NCT00000173
The National Institute on Aging (NIA) is launching a nationwide treatment study targeting individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a condition characterized by a memory deficit but not dementia. An NIA-funded study recently confirmed that MCI is different from both dementia and normal age-related changes in memory. Accurate and early evaluation and treatment of MCI individuals might prevent further cognitive decline, including development of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 The Memory Impairment Study is the first such AD prevention clinical trial carried out by NIH and will be conducted at 65-80 medical research institutions located in the United States and Canada. This study will test the usefulness of two drugs to slow or stop the conversion from MCI to AD. The trial will evaluate placebo, vitamin E and donepezil, an investigational agent approved by the Food and Drug Administration for another use. Vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) is thought to have antioxidant properties and was shown in a 1997 study to delay important dementia milestones, such as patients' institutionalization or progression to severe dementia, by about seven months. The National Institute on Aging (NIA) is launching a nationwide treatment study targeting individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a condition characterized by a memory deficit but not dementia. An NIA-funded study recently confirmed that MCI is different from both dementia and normal age-related changes in memory. Accurate and early evaluation and treatment of MCI individuals might prevent further cognitive decline, including development of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 The Memory Impairment Study is the first such AD prevention clinical trial carried out by NIH and will be conducted at 65-80 medical research institutions located in the United States and Canada. This study will test the usefulness of two drugs to slow or stop the conversion from MCI to AD. The trial will evaluate placebo, vitamin E and donepezil, an investigational agent approved by the Food and Drug Administration for another use. Vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) is thought to have antioxidant properties and was shown in a 1997 study to delay important dementia milestones, such as patients' institutionalization or progression to severe dementia, by about seven months.

>>NCT00071721
The purpose of this trial is to demonstrate whether valproate therapy delays the emergence of agitation and/or psychosis in outpatients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) who have not experienced agitation and psychosis in their illness. A secondary aim is to determine whether valproate therapy delays the progression of cognitive and functional measures of the illness. This trial will also assess the tolerability and safety of low-dose, long-term valproate therapy. Valproate, an anticonvulsant drug, was selected because of its possible symptomatic efficacy for agitation in AD, known safety profile in numerous clinical populations and in view of recent data supporting its neuroprotective potential in AD. The purpose of this trial is to demonstrate whether valproate therapy delays the emergence of agitation and/or psychosis in outpatients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) who have not experienced agitation and psychosis in their illness. A secondary aim is to determine whether valproate therapy delays the progression of cognitive and functional measures of the illness. This trial will also assess the tolerability and safety of low-dose, long-term valproate therapy. Valproate, an anticonvulsant drug, was selected because of its possible symptomatic efficacy for agitation in AD, known safety profile in numerous clinical populations and in view of recent data supporting its neuroprotective potential in AD.

>>NCT00001178
The Cognitive Neuroscience Section of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke proposes to continue its cross-sectional and longitudinal studies of cerebral metabolism in frontal lobe dementias and atypical basal ganglia disorders. These studies include repeated assessments of neuropsychological and brain anatomical and metabolic function in subjects with these important and possibly related brain disorders. The Cognitive Neuroscience Section of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke proposes to continue its cross-sectional and longitudinal studies of cerebral metabolism in frontal lobe dementias and atypical basal ganglia disorders. These studies include repeated assessments of neuropsychological and brain anatomical and metabolic function in subjects with these important and possibly related brain disorders.

>>NCT00000178
This is a randomized placebo controlled, double blind study. Patients who meet eligibility criteria and decide to participate in the study will be randomly assigned to receive either drug treatment or a placebo. Neither the patients nor the participating investigators will know who is receiving the drugs and who is receiving the placebo. Participation involves 15 outpatient clinic visits over a 68 week period. Patients take study medication at varying doses (the maximum dose is 20 mg daily), along with calcium and vitamin supplements.

>>NCT00000179
Agitation affects 70 to 90 percent of patients with AD. Signs of agitation include verbal and physical aggressiveness, irritability, wandering and restlessness. These behaviors often make caring for patients at home very difficult. Trazodone and haldol are two of the most commonly prescribed drugs for agitation in AD patients. Behavior management, a non drug approach, has been effective in reducing signs of agitation. Researchers have yet to compare the effectiveness of drug versus non drug therapy to treat agitation in AD patients and determine which is the best treatment. The Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study, with funding from the National Institute on Aging, is conducting an agitation treatment program at 21 sites in 16 States. This study will assess which of the above treatments is most effective.

>>NCT01998711
Aims:.
 To evaluate the efficacy of a brief intensive intervention for persons with mild cognitive impairment, assisted by family members or friends. To equip persons with mild cognitive impairment with specific skills to prevent memory failures and improve the capacity of patients and families to cope with everyday memory difficulties. Aims:.
 To evaluate the efficacy of a brief intensive intervention for persons with mild cognitive impairment, assisted by family members or friends. To equip persons with mild cognitive impairment with specific skills to prevent memory failures and improve the capacity of patients and families to cope with everyday memory difficulties.

>>NCT02141971
Non-randomized natural history study involving 12 subjects with Down Syndrome, who are aged 30-60 years old. This study will observe 3 different groups: four non-demented subjects between ages 30-40 years old, four non-demented subjects between ages 40-50 years old and four demented subjects 50-60 years old.
 Currently available longitudinal data in DS suggest a high rate of transition to dementia from the late 40s through the early 50s of these individuals. This, together with the universal presence of plaques in DS by their mid 40s makes this age range ideal for studying the development of AD. Non-randomized natural history study involving 12 subjects with Down Syndrome, who are aged 30-60 years old. This study will observe 3 different groups: four non-demented subjects between ages 30-40 years old, four non-demented subjects between ages 40-50 years old and four demented subjects 50-60 years old.
 Currently available longitudinal data in DS suggest a high rate of transition to dementia from the late 40s through the early 50s of these individuals. This, together with the universal presence of plaques in DS by their mid 40s makes this age range ideal for studying the development of AD.

>>NCT01447719
This study is designed to test the relationship between measurements of brain amyloid using florbetapir F 18 PET imaging and true levels of amyloid plaque density as measured by histopathological assessment. The study will address the following specific aims:.
 1. To expand the number of subjects included in the A07 (NCT00857415) trial correlation analysis (measuring the correlation between the global visual rating of brain amyloid plaque density on an independent blinded read of the florbetapir F 18 PET scan and the cortical amyloid plaque density at autopsy as assessed by histopathology for subjects in the autopsy cohort).
 2. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of an independent blinded visual read assessment of the florbetapir F 18 PET scan (A+ or A-) versus the final blinded neuropathological assessment made at autopsy.

>>NCT00232570
The primary hypothesis is that quetiapine will improve sleep in persons with Alzheimer's Disease (AD), with higher doses producing greater total sleep time and sleep efficiency. The primary hypothesis is that quetiapine will improve sleep in persons with Alzheimer's Disease (AD), with higher doses producing greater total sleep time and sleep efficiency.

>>NCT00178165
Established in 1995, Resources for Enhancing Alzheimer's Caregiver Health (REACH) is a unique, multi-site research program sponsored by the National Institute on Aging (NIA) and the National Institute on Nursing Research (NINR). The primary purpose of REACH is to carry out social and behavioral research on interventions designed to enhance family caregiving for Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Specifically, REACH has two goals: to test the effectiveness of multiple different interventions and to evaluate the pooled effect of REACH interventions overall. REACH grew out of a National Institute of Health (NIH) initiative that acknowledged the well-documented burdens associated with family caregiving as well as the existence of promising family caregiver interventions reported in the literature. Established in 1995, Resources for Enhancing Alzheimer's Caregiver Health (REACH) is a unique, multi-site research program sponsored by the National Institute on Aging (NIA) and the National Institute on Nursing Research (NINR). The primary purpose of REACH is to carry out social and behavioral research on interventions designed to enhance family caregiving for Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. Specifically, REACH has two goals: to test the effectiveness of multiple different interventions and to evaluate the pooled effect of REACH interventions overall. REACH grew out of a National Institute of Health (NIH) initiative that acknowledged the well-documented burdens associated with family caregiving as well as the existence of promising family caregiver interventions reported in the literature.

>>NCT01548430
The purpose of the study is to examine the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity and pharmacokinetics of TTP4000 in subjects with Alzheimer's disease with mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT00441987
The purpose of the protocol is to assess the initial pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of a single oral dose of GSI-953 to healthy male Japanese subjects and healthy elderly male Japanese subjects.

>>NCT01128725
Beta amyloid immunoreactivity is probably due to a significant number of Ab catabolites corresponding to N-terminally truncated and Cterminally truncated or extended forms which display distinct propensity to aggregation. Very few things are known concerning the mechanisms and proteases by which they are generated. Furthermore, the link between truncation and toxicity has not been delineated.
 Finally, little is known concerning Ab fragments in biological fluids and whether they could be seen as early biomarkers and thereby, as putative targets for AD diagnostic. The present project will allow to examine the human biological samples and to identify various cohorts after complete clinical evaluation.

>>NCT02094729
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity and pharmacodynamic response of repeated intravenous infusions of BAN2401 in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity and pharmacodynamic response of repeated intravenous infusions of BAN2401 in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02008357
The purpose of this study is to test whether an investigational drug called solanezumab can slow the progression of memory problems associated with brain amyloid (protein that forms plaques in the brains of people with Alzheimer Disease [AD]). The purpose of this study is to test whether an investigational drug called solanezumab can slow the progression of memory problems associated with brain amyloid (protein that forms plaques in the brains of people with Alzheimer Disease [AD]).

>>NCT00825084
This study is to characterize the pharmacokinetics of single and multiple oral doses of Dimebon in Japanese healthy subjects. This study is also to evaluate the safety and tolerability of single and multiple oral doses of Dimebon in Japanese healthy subjects. The secondary objective of this study is to compare the pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of single and multiple oral doses of Dimebon in Japanese and Western healthy subjects.

>>NCT02004392
This is a 26-week, randomized extension of the Phase 3 double-blind placebo-controlled studies, EVP-6124-024 and EVP-6124-025. In this extension study, subjects who complete study EVP-6124-024 or EVP-6124-025 and fulfill all entry criteria will be randomized to receive EVP-6124 for an additional 26 weeks.

>>NCT01055392
Lithium salts have been used for the treatment of psychiatric disorders for over five decades, mostly as a mood-stabilizing drug. Recent evidence points to the inhibition of the enzyme glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK3) as one of its mechanisms of action. The overactivity of this enzyme has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), given its involvement in mechanisms related to the hyperphosphorylation of Tau protein and the production of beta-amyloid peptide. These are key events leading respectively to the formation of neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques, which are the neuropathological hallmarks of the disease. Several in vitro and animal studies have shown that the inhibition of GSK3 by lithium and other agents attenuates these pathological processes, reinforcing the notion that GSK3 is a likely target for future disease-modifying therapies for AD. Indeed, a recent study published by our group showed that chronic lithium use is associated with a decrement in the expected prevalence of dementia, in a sample of elderly individuals with bipolar disorder. To investigate this putative neuroprotective effect in a prospective way, the investigators started 24-month randomized, double-blinded controlled trial of lithium for the prevention of dementia in a sample of elderly individuals with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI), a condition associated with increased risk for the development of AD. The clinical and biological outcomes of this trial include the attenuation of cognitive deficits and the modification of certain biological markers of the disease (as measured in the cerebrospinal fluid, leukocytes and platelets). The objective of the present application is to enable the extension of this ongoing trial to an additional 2-year follow-up. A longer follow-up (48 months) will increase the statistical power to ascertain the primary outcome variables of this study, particularly the con-version from MCI to Alzheimer's disease. This will warrant a more consistent conclusion about the potential of lithium treatment in the prevention of dementia, in addition to a better evaluation of safety and tolerability profiles of the long-term use of lithium in older individuals.

>>NCT01640275
Previous work in animal models suggests that inhalational anesthetic agents may accelerate Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis but it is unclear to what extent this may happen in humans. Here, the investigators propose to measure Alzheimer's disease-related neural markers in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients exposed to anesthesia while undergoing neurosurgical procedures that require lumbar drain placement. Patients will be randomized to either receive inhalation anesthesia with isoflurane or intravenous anesthesia with propofol.
 CSF and blood samples will each be collected at the induction of anesthesia and then again ten and twenty-four hours later. CSF samples will be assayed for amyloid beta, tau and other Alzheimer's disease-associated markers; blood samples will be assayed for serum inflammatory markers and used for genotyping studies. These studies should clarify the effect of common anesthetic agents on Alzheimer's disease related neural markers.

>>NCT00692705
The study is carried out in order to investigate if [11C]AZD2995, compared to [11C]AZD2184, is a more suitable PET ligand for in vivo imaging of  amyloid depositions in the human brain. In the study the two PET ligands will be examined in both healthy volunteers and patients with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01893398
Our previous findings support the notion that group activity program, based on cognitive stimulation, recreational-occupational activities and physical-psychomotor exercises, can lead to an improvement in behavioral aspects for people with Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
 The purpose of this study is to clarify the efficacy of a rehabilitation program in outpatients affected by AD in mild to moderate stages.

>>NCT00303277
Recent evidence suggests that there is a significant overlap between AD and cerebrovascular disease. In fact, AD and cerebrovascular disease may share some of the same risk factors, including hypercholesterolemia. In addition, studies have suggested that the HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor lipid-lowering agents, known as "statins," decrease the risk of AD by up to 70%; however, effects differed by specific statin use. This study will compare two statins, simvastatin (which crosses the blood brain barrier) and pravastatin (which does not), with respect to their ability to alter blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of AD and inflammatory markers. The primary aim of the proposed study is to determine whether there is a reduction in Abeta with statins and whether the ability of the statin to cross the blood-brain barrier will affect its ability to decrease Abeta. If it can be demonstrated that statins alter AD-associated biomarkers, this would have broad implications for the treatment and prevention of AD. Recent evidence suggests that there is a significant overlap between AD and cerebrovascular disease. In fact, AD and cerebrovascular disease may share some of the same risk factors, including hypercholesterolemia. In addition, studies have suggested that the HMG Co-A reductase inhibitor lipid-lowering agents, known as "statins," decrease the risk of AD by up to 70%; however, effects differed by specific statin use. This study will compare two statins, simvastatin (which crosses the blood brain barrier) and pravastatin (which does not), with respect to their ability to alter blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of AD and inflammatory markers. The primary aim of the proposed study is to determine whether there is a reduction in Abeta with statins and whether the ability of the statin to cross the blood-brain barrier will affect its ability to decrease Abeta. If it can be demonstrated that statins alter AD-associated biomarkers, this would have broad implications for the treatment and prevention of AD.

>>NCT02586909
This 12-month open-label study will provide further information regarding the long-term safety and tolerability of RVT-101 for subjects with Alzheimer's disease who have completed the double-blind, placebo-controlled, lead-in study RVT-101-3001 (double-blind study). This 12-month open-label study will provide further information regarding the long-term safety and tolerability of RVT-101 for subjects with Alzheimer's disease who have completed the double-blind, placebo-controlled, lead-in study RVT-101-3001 (double-blind study).

>>NCT00348309
Rosiglitazone (RSG) has been tested in clinical studies and is approved by the FDA as a treatment for type II diabetes mellitus, a disease that occurs when the body is unable to effectively use glucose. RSG XR, the investigational drug used in this study, is an extended-release form of RSG.
 This study tests whether RSG XR safely provides clinical benefit to people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) when combined with the currently approved AD medication, Aricept (donepezil). RSG XR is a new approach to AD therapy and this study tests a new way to treat AD by testing whether one's genetic makeup affects their response to the study drug. Clinical data suggesting that RSG may benefit AD patients was first seen in a small study performed at the University of Washington and then from a larger GSK study conducted in Europe and New Zealand. In the first study, subjects receiving RSG once daily for 6 months scored significantly better on 3 tests of memory and thought than those who did not receive RSG. In the GSK study, those that appeared to benefit most from treatment with RSG XR had a specific genetic pattern. They did not have the gene that caused them to produce the protein apolipoprotein E e4 (APOE e4). Subjects who have the APOE e4 gene may have two copies, one from each parent or they may have only one APOE e4 gene meaning that they inherited either the APOE e2 or APOE e3 version of the gene, instead of APOE e4, from one of their parents. Subjects with one copy of the APOE e4 gene remained at their same level of thinking ability while those with two copies of the APOE e4 gene, continued to worsen during the 6-month treatment. The current study will more directly test the effectiveness or RSG XR on people who either have or lack the APOE e4 gene. Rosiglitazone (RSG) has been tested in clinical studies and is approved by the FDA as a treatment for type II diabetes mellitus, a disease that occurs when the body is unable to effectively use glucose. RSG XR, the investigational drug used in this study, is an extended-release form of RSG.
 This study tests whether RSG XR safely provides clinical benefit to people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) when combined with the currently approved AD medication, Aricept (donepezil). RSG XR is a new approach to AD therapy and this study tests a new way to treat AD by testing whether one's genetic makeup affects their response to the study drug. Clinical data suggesting that RSG may benefit AD patients was first seen in a small study performed at the University of Washington and then from a larger GSK study conducted in Europe and New Zealand. In the first study, subjects receiving RSG once daily for 6 months scored significantly better on 3 tests of memory and thought than those who did not receive RSG. In the GSK study, those that appeared to benefit most from treatment with RSG XR had a specific genetic pattern. They did not have the gene that caused them to produce the protein apolipoprotein E e4 (APOE e4). Subjects who have the APOE e4 gene may have two copies, one from each parent or they may have only one APOE e4 gene meaning that they inherited either the APOE e2 or APOE e3 version of the gene, instead of APOE e4, from one of their parents. Subjects with one copy of the APOE e4 gene remained at their same level of thinking ability while those with two copies of the APOE e4 gene, continued to worsen during the 6-month treatment. The current study will more directly test the effectiveness or RSG XR on people who either have or lack the APOE e4 gene.

>>NCT02707458
DEPEND is an open-label but dosage-masked trial of the retired cholesterol-lowering drug probucol as an agent to increase availability of apolipoprotein E (apoE) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of cognitively intact older persons at risk of Alzheimer's dementia. Absorption of oral probucol is variable. In a sample of 23 cognitively intact persons over age 55, DEPEND will therefore develop an algorithm to prescribe individualized dosing to achieve plasma concentration that will likely increase availability of CSF apoE. These persons will then use their individualized dosage for 12 months to assess longer-term effects of the drug on CSF apoE concentration, while monitoring closely for evidence of adverse consequences of use. DEPEND is an open-label but dosage-masked trial of the retired cholesterol-lowering drug probucol as an agent to increase availability of apolipoprotein E (apoE) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of cognitively intact older persons at risk of Alzheimer's dementia. Absorption of oral probucol is variable. In a sample of 23 cognitively intact persons over age 55, DEPEND will therefore develop an algorithm to prescribe individualized dosing to achieve plasma concentration that will likely increase availability of CSF apoE. These persons will then use their individualized dosage for 12 months to assess longer-term effects of the drug on CSF apoE concentration, while monitoring closely for evidence of adverse consequences of use.

>>NCT01028053
This study will investigate the efficacy of the Flutemetamol (18F) Injection PET tracer in identifying abnormal (18F) flutemetamol uptake patterns which predict the conversion from aMCI to a b-amyloid associated clinically probable Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01609348
This study will test the use of venlafaxine to treat the depression in Alzheimer's Disease. Venlafaxine works by increasing natural substances in the brain (serotonin and norepinephrine) that help maintain mental balance. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the commonest neurodegenerative disease of aging and the cause of major financial and emotional burden to patients, families and caregivers and society. Depression is a very common symptom of AD, affecting as many as 50% of patients over their illness. Depression in AD (Alzheimer's disease) contributes greatly to patient disability and caregiver distress. Neither psychosocial interventions nor psychotropic medications have proven effective to date for the treatment of depression in AD.Venlafaxine is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of major depression but it is not known whether or not it can help depression in Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01089270
Parkinson Disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative illnesses. First degree relatives of Parkinson patient are in high risk for developing the disease. We will try to detect early changes in brain metabolism before the appearance of Parkinson symptoms.
 Participants: first degree relatives of diagnosed Parkinson patients that carry a gene mutation in either LRRK2 or GBA genes.
 The examination results will be given to the participants by a doctor from the neurology department.

>>NCT02196116
This research aim to explore relationships between the presence of amyloid burden and cognitive performance and its modulation by educational level. For this purpose we will combine Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and neuropsychological assessment acquired on 3 groups of subjects, from two population-based cohorts "3C" and "AMIMage" The first group includes cognitively intact participants who will serve as controls, the second group, subjects with mild cognitive impairments without memory complaint and the third, subjects with both mild cognitive impairments and memory complaint. This research aim to explore relationships between the presence of amyloid burden and cognitive performance and its modulation by educational level. For this purpose we will combine Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and neuropsychological assessment acquired on 3 groups of subjects, from two population-based cohorts "3C" and "AMIMage" The first group includes cognitively intact participants who will serve as controls, the second group, subjects with mild cognitive impairments without memory complaint and the third, subjects with both mild cognitive impairments and memory complaint.

>>NCT01126099
A study of outpatient participants with Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia who have difficult behaviors that are upsetting for them or their caregivers. Prazosin is a medication that is commonly used to treat people with high blood pressure. Research with prazosin has shown that it may be effective in treating behavioral problems by reducing excess adrenalin effects in the brain. A study of outpatient participants with Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia who have difficult behaviors that are upsetting for them or their caregivers. Prazosin is a medication that is commonly used to treat people with high blood pressure. Research with prazosin has shown that it may be effective in treating behavioral problems by reducing excess adrenalin effects in the brain.

>>NCT01439555
Purpose of the study: Patients with mild Alzheimer's Disease will be given three different drugs over a 4-month period to try to increase the blood flow to their brains and improve blood vessel and brain function. Each drug can help to open the blood vessels in the brain and together they may be more effective than each drug alone. The hypothesis is that small blood vessels secrete substances that maintain the integrity of the brain and may prevent loss of nerve cells leading to Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00192998
The aim of this project is to examine the serotonergic transmitter system using functional imaging of the brain (positron emission tomography [PET]) to gain knowledge about early pathophysiological changes in Alzheimer's dementia and mood disorders.

>>NCT00362284
The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of a comprehensive counseling and support intervention for people who care for parents with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or other dementias on outcomes such as stress, depression and ability to postpone or avoid nursing home placement. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of a comprehensive counseling and support intervention for people who care for parents with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or other dementias on outcomes such as stress, depression and ability to postpone or avoid nursing home placement.

>>NCT00494962
To determine the bioequivalence between two 5-mg tablets of lecozotan and the new 10-mg tablet of lecozotan.

>>NCT02648906
The purpose of this study is to evaluate efficacy and safety of Choline alfoscerate and Donepezil for cognitive improvements of patients with cerebrovascular injury in Alzheimer patients.

>>NCT02444078
This is a cluster randomised controlled trial composed of two research arms: exercise training group (experimental group) and a social activity group (control group). This is a cluster randomised controlled trial composed of two research arms: exercise training group (experimental group) and a social activity group (control group).

>>NCT00721383
The purpose of this randomized clinical trial is to test a 12-month multi-component health promotion intervention with home-based family caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's Disease and other related dementias. Specific aims are to: 1) Test the primary hypothesis: The Enhancing Physical Activity treatment intervention will be more effective in increasing caregiver lifestyle physical activity than the Standard Care Intervention; 2) Test secondary hypotheses: The Enhancing Physical Activity treatment intervention will be more effective than the Standard Care Intervention in improving the following caregiver secondary outcomes: mental health, physical health and physical function; and 3) Evaluate the process of implementing a lifestyle physical activity intervention with family caregivers. The Standard Care Intervention focuses on well-established care-related education and support needs. The Enhancing Physical Activity treatment intervention focuses on two areas: increasing lifestyle physical activity and addressing well-established care-related concerns that are likely to interfere with increasing physical activity. A total of 190 middle-age to older community-based primary caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's disease or other related dementias who report some to moderate strain with caregiving activities will be randomly assigned to either the Enhancing Physical Activity or Standard Care Intervention. Data will be collected at baseline, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 18 months and include self-report and direct observational methods. Data will be analyzed by using repeated measures models using the generalized estimating equation approach. Family caregivers are a stressed population who experience changes in their mental and physical health. However, effect sizes have been minimal for interventions designed to only affect caregiver mental health. No study known to us, has tested the added value of physical activity adoption in conjunction with more traditional caregiver support and skill building. Study findings will enable us to evaluate the behavioral , physical and health-related quality of life effects achieved by the combined intervention; and will add knowledge about the most effective ways of intervening with family caregivers and other chronically stressed middle-age and older adult populations.

>>NCT02051608
This multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of gantenerumab in patients with mild Alzheimer disease. Patients will be randomized to receive either gantenerumab subcutaneously every 4 weeks or placebo subcutaneously every 4 weeks. Approved Alzheimer medication is allowed if on stable dose for 3 months prior to screening.
 A positron emission tomography (PET) imaging substudy will be conducted within the main study. Eligible patients who provide separate informed consent will undergo up to four PET imaging scans using the radioligand florbetapir as a pharmacodynamic measure of changes in brain amyloid load over time. The substudy's target sample size is 100 patients in each arm of the main study.

>>NCT00966017
The purpose of this study is to develop small molecule radio-labeled probes of beta-amyloid, to be used with positron emission tomography (PET) for early detection and treatment monitoring of Alzheimer disease (AD). The study hypothesis is that PET imaging of small molecule probes, in the form of novel fluorescent dyes with radioactive labels, will demonstrate cerebral patterns in patients with AD that are distinct from those of age-matched persons who are cognitively intact. The purpose of this study is to develop small molecule radio-labeled probes of beta-amyloid, to be used with positron emission tomography (PET) for early detection and treatment monitoring of Alzheimer disease (AD). The study hypothesis is that PET imaging of small molecule probes, in the form of novel fluorescent dyes with radioactive labels, will demonstrate cerebral patterns in patients with AD that are distinct from those of age-matched persons who are cognitively intact.

>>NCT00291421
The purpose of this study is to collect and compare information regarding the treatment and outcome of patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease who are receiving either drug or nondrug treatment. Information will be collected from patients and their primary caregivers. The purpose of this study is to collect and compare information regarding the treatment and outcome of patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease who are receiving either drug or nondrug treatment. Information will be collected from patients and their primary caregivers.

>>NCT00960531
The purpose of this study is to assess the long term safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of ACC-001, an investigational vaccine, plus QS-21 in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01025466
The primary objective is to compare the tolerability between rivastigmine patch monotherapy and combination therapy with memantine in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The secondary objective is to compare the efficacy and safety between rivastigmine patch monotherapy and combination therapy with memantine in patients with AD. The study hypothesis is that the tolerability of the combination therapy with memantine is not inferior to that of rivastigmine patch monotherapy in AD patients. The primary objective is to compare the tolerability between rivastigmine patch monotherapy and combination therapy with memantine in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The secondary objective is to compare the efficacy and safety between rivastigmine patch monotherapy and combination therapy with memantine in patients with AD. The study hypothesis is that the tolerability of the combination therapy with memantine is not inferior to that of rivastigmine patch monotherapy in AD patients.

>>NCT00149175
Patients with different types of dementia will be recruited and evaluated in national hospital departments for their usual neurological follow-ups. A blood sample will be proposed in the field of this research project and the biological material will be stored at the DNA and Cell Bank of Institut de Fdratif Recherche (IFR) of Neurosciences (Piti-Salptrire Hospital, Paris). The clinical research network is already set up for Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementias, which permits an evaluation according to a clinical standardized protocol.
 Among these disorders, a monogenic sub-group has been identified. In Alzheimer's disease, it is associated with the APP, PSEN1 and PSEN2 genes, which account only for 75% of the familial forms with early onset. In frontotemporal dementias, the tau gene mutations account only for 10% of the cases with an autosomal dominant inheritance. The identification of familial forms with a genetic inquiry in the relatives is essential for a greater knowledge of the molecular bases of forms not caused by the known genes, using linkage approaches and candidate gene analysis. The familial forms are also useful for identifying the modifier genes.
 In the multifactorial forms, the aim is to assemble a wide cohort of patients and controls matched for localizing and identifying susceptibility genetic factors. The strategies will use a candidate gene approach and in the near future, studies of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) spread out in the whole genome. Meanwhile, similar approaches, particularly with candidate genes, could be used for identifying predictive factors of tolerance and response to the treatment.
 Finally, correlations will be performed with seric markers according to each kind of dementia.
 Specialized clinical teams in diagnosis and follow-up in dementias are assembled for this project and in the study of neurological disorders of genetic origin.

>>NCT00480818
To assess the safety and tolerability of ascending multiple oral doses of SAM-531, an investigational drug, in healthy young adult and elderly subjects.To assess the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) profiles of multiple oral doses of SAM-531 in healthy young adult and elderly subjects.

>>NCT01682915
Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common, impairing, clinically and genetically heterogeneous neuropsychiatric disorder with lifelong executive dysfunctions. The ultimate goal of this 3-year case-control imaging genomic study with unaffected siblings and typically developing (TD) children as controls is to identify useful imaging endophenotype for ADHD by investigating the structural connectivity, as assessed by diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI) and functional connectivity, as assessed by resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI) of brain regions related to cognitive/executive controls with regards to the ADHD status and the presence of dopamine transporter gene variants (DAT1).
 Specific Aims:.
 1. to validate the executive functions, visuospatial memory and structural and functional connectivity in frontostriatal and frontoparietal circuitries as effective neurocognitive endophenotypes;.
 2. to correlate the data from structural and functional connectivity, neuropsychology and ADHD core symptoms stratifying by the presence of ADHD, proband-unaffected sibling dyads and the presence of DAT1 variant; and.
 3. To investigate reported candidate genes, in addition to DAT1 variant, related to dopamine and noradrenergic neurotransmitter systems in the association with neurocognitive endophenotypes such as DRD1, DRD2, DRD4, DRD5, DBH, MAO-A, ADRA2A, ADRA2C, NET and COMT. Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common, impairing, clinically and genetically heterogeneous neuropsychiatric disorder with lifelong executive dysfunctions. The ultimate goal of this 3-year case-control imaging genomic study with unaffected siblings and typically developing (TD) children as controls is to identify useful imaging endophenotype for ADHD by investigating the structural connectivity, as assessed by diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI) and functional connectivity, as assessed by resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI) of brain regions related to cognitive/executive controls with regards to the ADHD status and the presence of dopamine transporter gene variants (DAT1).
 Specific Aims:.
 1. to validate the executive functions, visuospatial memory and structural and functional connectivity in frontostriatal and frontoparietal circuitries as effective neurocognitive endophenotypes;.
 2. to correlate the data from structural and functional connectivity, neuropsychology and ADHD core symptoms stratifying by the presence of ADHD, proband-unaffected sibling dyads and the presence of DAT1 variant; and.
 3. To investigate reported candidate genes, in addition to DAT1 variant, related to dopamine and noradrenergic neurotransmitter systems in the association with neurocognitive endophenotypes such as DRD1, DRD2, DRD4, DRD5, DBH, MAO-A, ADRA2A, ADRA2C, NET and COMT.

>>NCT00777608
This study will evaluate the performance of the CogState computerized neuropsychological battery, Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-cog) and Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study - Activities of Daily Living (ADCS-ADL) in participants with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01429623
The purpose of this study is to determine whether treatment with the investigational drug ladostigil will delay the onset of Alzheimer's disease(AD) in patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). MCI is now recognized as a precursor to AD and clinical tools are available to assess cognitive performance at this earlier stage. Ladostigil is currently under investigation for the treatment of AD. In this study, the investigators will be examining ladostigil at a lower dose level. At this dose level, ladostigil has been shown to reduce signs of early memory loss in animals. Thus, in this study the investigators are attempting to determine if earlier invention with a lower dose of ladostigil will significantly reduce initial memory loss and delay the subsequent progression to more serious cognitive dysfunction.

>>NCT02726906
The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of modifiable lifestyle factors including exercise and healthy living on brain health. The investigators will compare 2 types of interventions, moderate aerobic walking vs. healthy living education, over 6 months to evaluate changes in brain health, cognition and physical function in older adults with cognitive concerns. The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of modifiable lifestyle factors including exercise and healthy living on brain health. The investigators will compare 2 types of interventions, moderate aerobic walking vs. healthy living education, over 6 months to evaluate changes in brain health, cognition and physical function in older adults with cognitive concerns.

>>NCT02299154
This study aims to prospectively examine the memory problem perceptions of patients with memory complaints [MCs] and their accompaniers during the diagnostic process. This study aims to prospectively examine the memory problem perceptions of patients with memory complaints [MCs] and their accompaniers during the diagnostic process.

>>NCT01388478
By doing this study, researchers will examine the safety and tolerability of R-pramipexole in participants with Alzheimer's disease. This study will also examine the body and brain's response to the study drug by measuring the amount of injury to the cells (oxidative stress) in the blood and spinal fluid and brain imaging before and after treatment. By doing this study, researchers will examine the safety and tolerability of R-pramipexole in participants with Alzheimer's disease. This study will also examine the body and brain's response to the study drug by measuring the amount of injury to the cells (oxidative stress) in the blood and spinal fluid and brain imaging before and after treatment.

>>NCT02386306
This is a Phase 1b, multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of GC021109 in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (as determined by 2011 National Institute on Aging- Alzheimer's Association [NIA-AA] criteria and Mini Mental State Examination [MMSE]). The Investigator, study site staff, (with exception of a designated pharmacist/pharmacy technician) and all study subjects will be blinded to randomized study medication assignment until database lock. Treatment assignments may be unblinded for select pre-authorized individuals involved in the safety and PK data reviews in order to accurately determine how to proceed with dose escalation.

>>NCT02650843
This project aims to clarify the role non-motor symptoms in the development of Parkinson's disease (PD) and to improve diagnostics at very early stages of PD. The project involves multidimensional measures of disease biomarkers together with brain dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging with [123I]FP-CIT single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT).

>>NCT02397980
The purpose of this study is to investigate if behavioral intervention for dementia caregivers will decrease caregiver burden in caregivers of patients with dementia. This multicenter, randomized trial will be conducted with 80 dementia caregivers, who will be randomized into two groups. One group consists of 40 participants who will receive behavioral intervention and 40 who will not receive intervention (waitlist control). The waitlist control group will be also provided the same intervention after the intervention group has completed the intervention. The behavioral intervention consists of 90-min-session a day with an interval of two weeks for 2 months. The primary outcome measures are the changes in scores of Zaret's Burden Inventory and Philadelphia Geriatric Center for Moral Scale (PGCMS). The purpose of this study is to investigate if behavioral intervention for dementia caregivers will decrease caregiver burden in caregivers of patients with dementia. This multicenter, randomized trial will be conducted with 80 dementia caregivers, who will be randomized into two groups. One group consists of 40 participants who will receive behavioral intervention and 40 who will not receive intervention (waitlist control). The waitlist control group will be also provided the same intervention after the intervention group has completed the intervention. The behavioral intervention consists of 90-min-session a day with an interval of two weeks for 2 months. The primary outcome measures are the changes in scores of Zaret's Burden Inventory and Philadelphia Geriatric Center for Moral Scale (PGCMS).

>>NCT00455000
The purpose of this study is determine whether a single IV dose of PF-04360365 is safe and well tolerated in Adults with Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02820896
This is a Phase I, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and preliminary activity of RO7105705 in two participant populations: healthy participants and participants with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. This study is a single dose, dose-escalation and multiple dose study comprising approximately six single dose cohorts in healthy participants administered RO7105705, either intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously (SC) and comprising one or more multiple dose cohorts in healthy participants administered RO7105705 IV every week (QW), a total of 4 doses and one or more multiple dose cohorts in participants with Alzheimer's disease administered RO7105705 IV QW, a total of 4 doses.

>>NCT00056316
The purpose of this study was to develop and examine the initial impact of a distance-based intervention for female family dementia caregivers. As stated in the original proposal, the primary hypothesis of the study was that family caregivers who participated in the Video Intervention would show greater reduction in psychological distress (i.e., on measures of depression and emotional distress following problematic patient behaviors) compared to those in the Basic Education condition and that this effect would be maintained over time (3 and 6 months post-tx). The purpose of this study was to develop and examine the initial impact of a distance-based intervention for female family dementia caregivers. As stated in the original proposal, the primary hypothesis of the study was that family caregivers who participated in the Video Intervention would show greater reduction in psychological distress (i.e., on measures of depression and emotional distress following problematic patient behaviors) compared to those in the Basic Education condition and that this effect would be maintained over time (3 and 6 months post-tx).

>>NCT02501876
In recent years, it has been observed that the type 2 diabetic patients (DM-2) have an increased risk of developing dementia, both vascular and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The term mild cognitive impairment (MCI) describes a transition state between normal cognitive function and dementia. The annual rate of conversion to dementia in MCI patients is around 15% in the general population, regardless of the presence or absence of diabetes. At present it is not possible to identify which patients with MCI are most likely to progress to AD. On this basis, the main objective of this study is to evaluate whether the presence of diabetes and or the presence of its related genes favors the conversion of MCI to AD. In recent years, it has been observed that the type 2 diabetic patients (DM-2) have an increased risk of developing dementia, both vascular and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The term mild cognitive impairment (MCI) describes a transition state between normal cognitive function and dementia. The annual rate of conversion to dementia in MCI patients is around 15% in the general population, regardless of the presence or absence of diabetes. At present it is not possible to identify which patients with MCI are most likely to progress to AD. On this basis, the main objective of this study is to evaluate whether the presence of diabetes and or the presence of its related genes favors the conversion of MCI to AD.

>>NCT00257712
The purpose of the SMART study was to better understand whether the body's own production of growth hormone (GH) would improve memory and problem solving ability or cognitive function. The study was a double blind, placebo-controlled study of the cognitive effects of growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) in healthy older men and women and in those with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The purpose of the SMART study was to better understand whether the body's own production of growth hormone (GH) would improve memory and problem solving ability or cognitive function. The study was a double blind, placebo-controlled study of the cognitive effects of growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) in healthy older men and women and in those with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

>>NCT02210286
The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of supplementing Magnesium L-Threonate in people with mild to moderate dementia . The investigators goal is to understand whether Magnesium L-Threonate will be associated with improvement in memory and brain function.

>>NCT00412048
The aim of the protocol is to study the resting brain activation profile of 3 groups of people, using a new fMRI procedure, called fMRI-SAM. fMRI-SAM will be applied to 25 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, 25 patients suffering from amnestic - mild cognitive impairment (MCI) - a clinical picture which may be a prodromal form of AD - and 60 healthy controls. The first analysis of the data will search differences of brain activation profiles between the 3 groups. In the second step, the investigators will study the predictive value of fMRI-SAM to detect MCI patients who will later convert to AD.

>>NCT02670083
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of crenezumab versus placebo in participants with prodromal to mild AD. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to receive either intravenous (IV) infusion of crenezumab or placebo every 4 weeks (q4w) for 100 weeks. The final efficacy and safety assessment will be performed 52 weeks after the last crenezumab dose.

>>NCT01796314
Therapeutic education expands in Alzheimer's Disease management in France. Several studies revealed a positive impact on caregiver's burden and/or quality of life. The purpose of this study, is to determine whether a therapeutic educational programme for both AD patients and primary caregivers, in community dwelling, improves patient's quality of life. Therapeutic education expands in Alzheimer's Disease management in France. Several studies revealed a positive impact on caregiver's burden and/or quality of life. The purpose of this study, is to determine whether a therapeutic educational programme for both AD patients and primary caregivers, in community dwelling, improves patient's quality of life.

>>NCT01476228
The main objective of the study is to evaluate the use of EEG in the management and follow-up of neuropsychiatric disorders. Secondary objectives are therefore better understanding of the pathological activations in neural network during neuropsychiatric disorders, their clinical evolution and response to therapies. The main objective of the study is to evaluate the use of EEG in the management and follow-up of neuropsychiatric disorders. Secondary objectives are therefore better understanding of the pathological activations in neural network during neuropsychiatric disorders, their clinical evolution and response to therapies.

>>NCT00698165
Objective of study is to assess the costs of care, objective and subjective caregiver burden and quality of life in relation to disease severity measured by cognitive function, ADL capabilities and presence of behavioral disturbances in Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02434393
The purpose of this research study is to characterize the mechanisms contributing to cognitive impairment and accelerated cognitive decline in Late Life Depression (LLD).
 This is a non-randomized, observational, non-treatment study. One hundred and twenty (120) subjects who meet criteria for Major Depression or LLD will be enrolled for a period of 30 months. Data from an additional 300 non-depressed subjects will be used from ADNI studies for comparison.
 Depression history, symptom severity and health information will be collected at the initial psychiatric visit to determine eligibility. A 3 Tesla (3T) Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan and florbetapir (18F-AV-45) amyloid imaging will be conducted at the ADNI clinic site visits. Collection of plasma and serum for biomarkers, clinical assessments and cognitive assessments will be conducted at two time points. Blood samples will also be collected for genetic analysis.

>>NCT00818662
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 2 doses of Immune Globulin Intravenous (IGIV), 10% administered every 2 weeks as an intravenous (IV) infusion compared with placebo in participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 2 doses of Immune Globulin Intravenous (IGIV), 10% administered every 2 weeks as an intravenous (IV) infusion compared with placebo in participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00979316
The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of BMS-708163 on the QTc interval (QT interval corrected for heart rate).

>>NCT00612872
To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I CLINDE, a potential imaging biomarker for inflammatory changes in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged healthy controls and subjects with Alzheimer (AD) or Parkinson disease (PD).
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I CLINDE in healthy and subjects with AD or PD to determine the nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I CLINDE as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I CLINDE and SPECT in AD and PD subjects and healthy controls To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I CLINDE, a potential imaging biomarker for inflammatory changes in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged healthy controls and subjects with Alzheimer (AD) or Parkinson disease (PD).
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I CLINDE in healthy and subjects with AD or PD to determine the nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I CLINDE as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I CLINDE and SPECT in AD and PD subjects and healthy controls.

>>NCT01807026
This study is being done for the following reasons:.
 To determine the safety of LY2886721 and any side effects that may be associated with it and to see how much of the study drug is in the blood and the cerebrospinal fluid when one dose is given to healthy participants and participants diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. It will also look at how safe and tolerable the study drug is when given to healthy participants in higher doses.
 This research study is being conducted in three groups, referred to as Groups (Cohorts) A, B or C.
 Group A will enroll participants with Alzheimer's disease while Groups B and C will enroll healthy participants.
 For Group A or B, participation in this research study could last up to 34 days. For Group C, participation could last up to 60 days.

>>NCT01703702
This study is designed to determine the effectiveness of florbetapir (18F) in changing patient management and to evaluate the association between scan status and cognitive decline.

>>NCT02256306
The PLasma for Alzheimer SymptoM Amelioration (PLASMA) Study: Intravenously-Administered Plasma From Young Donors for Treatment of Mild-To-Moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00558402
The goal is to determine how 6-week stress reduction techniques may decrease stress in primary caregivers of people with Alzheimer's disease. The 3 intervention programs are meditation, education and respite care. There will be approximately 108 subjects over 3 years. Subjects will have a screening session over the phone to see if they are eligible (50-85 years old, spending at least 12 hours per week caring for a close relative with Alzheimer's disease, willing to be in any of the 3 groups and without any very serious medical problem). The subjects will have 3 testing sessions, 1 before classes/respite and 2 after classes are over, each lasting about 3 hours. The classes are taught in a one-on-one setting and they are 50 minutes per week for 6 weeks. Respite care is provided for the person with Alzheimer's disease in all the groups. Measurements include people's ratings of stress, psychological testing and biological measurements of stress, including the following: saliva, blood and urine collection; waist-to-hip ratio; weight; blood pressure; heart rate; respiration; reaction time task; voice recordings; electrocardiogram; electroencephalogram; and electro dermal activity. The goal is to determine how 6-week stress reduction techniques may decrease stress in primary caregivers of people with Alzheimer's disease. The 3 intervention programs are meditation, education and respite care. There will be approximately 108 subjects over 3 years. Subjects will have a screening session over the phone to see if they are eligible (50-85 years old, spending at least 12 hours per week caring for a close relative with Alzheimer's disease, willing to be in any of the 3 groups and without any very serious medical problem). The subjects will have 3 testing sessions, 1 before classes/respite and 2 after classes are over, each lasting about 3 hours. The classes are taught in a one-on-one setting and they are 50 minutes per week for 6 weeks. Respite care is provided for the person with Alzheimer's disease in all the groups. Measurements include people's ratings of stress, psychological testing and biological measurements of stress, including the following: saliva, blood and urine collection; waist-to-hip ratio; weight; blood pressure; heart rate; respiration; reaction time task; voice recordings; electrocardiogram; electroencephalogram; and electro dermal activity.

>>NCT02176629
Cognitive and memory problems characterize Alzheimer's disease (AD). Along with these disorders, psychological and behavioral symptoms (also known as neuropsychiatric symptoms) , as well as pathophysiological processes are frequently found and involved significantly in maintaining autonomy, prognosis and treatment of the disease. Apathy or disorder motivation is the most common disorder behavior and early stages of cognitive impairment. Apathy is particularly associated with cognitive difficulties such as attention deficit disorder - concentration.
 In terms of prevention as term care , there is now a broad consensus that interventions on cognition and behavior must not be limited to pharmacological treatment but should also promote non-drug approaches.
 Interest in video games (serious games and serious games) as intervention support rehabilitation is growing. Similarly, the virtual reality (VR) and the new information technologies and communications offer significant opportunities in terms of rehabilitation and therapeutic assistance.
 This protocol is part of a European project to propose techniques for improving the treatment of people at risk of social exclusion ( VERVE project ) aims .
 A first experiment conducted in 2013 showed the acceptability of Virtual Reality (VR) in healthy elderly subjects. In a second step , it is important to validate the feasibility of using the RV or in frail subjects with mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease in mild to moderate in a clinical environment.
 This is a biomedical , randomized given to a group of patients with mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease & diseases associated with mild to moderate.

>>NCT01000870
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of MNI-513 positron emission tomography (PET) for detection/exclusion of cerebral amyloid beta in patients with Alzheimer's disease compared to healthy volunteers. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of MNI-513 positron emission tomography (PET) for detection/exclusion of cerebral amyloid beta in patients with Alzheimer's disease compared to healthy volunteers.

>>NCT02792257
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease of aging. Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) in AD are a major cause of burden to patients, caregivers and society and are near-universal at some point in the AD course. One of the most troubling of these symptoms is agitation (Agit-AD), typified by a variety of problem behaviors including combativeness, yelling, pacing, lack of cooperation with care, insomnia and restlessness There is a great need for better interventions that target Agit-AD, a major source of patient disability as well as caregiver burden and stress, particularly in the case of moderate to severe agitation. This pilot trial could open the door to "repurposing" Dronabinol (Marinol) as a novel and safe treatment for Agit-AD with significant public health impact. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease of aging. Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) in AD are a major cause of burden to patients, caregivers and society and are near-universal at some point in the AD course. One of the most troubling of these symptoms is agitation (Agit-AD), typified by a variety of problem behaviors including combativeness, yelling, pacing, lack of cooperation with care, insomnia and restlessness There is a great need for better interventions that target Agit-AD, a major source of patient disability as well as caregiver burden and stress, particularly in the case of moderate to severe agitation. This pilot trial could open the door to "repurposing" Dronabinol (Marinol) as a novel and safe treatment for Agit-AD with significant public health impact.

>>NCT02302482
The Alzheimer's disease or related disorders (ADRD) are among the most disabling diseases because of their main features such as cognitive impairment, loss of functional autonomy and behavioural disorders. In absence of current curative treatment, the identification of the predictive risk factors of progression of the disease, evaluated through its main symptoms, represents a major stake of public health. The investigators aimed at developing a database, which includes the patient medical records on a prospective basis, in collaboration with the medical and administrative personal and with the University hospital computer science department. The main objective is to study the predictive factors associated with the change of functional autonomy level, measured every 6 months to 12 months by phone, in a Memory Clinic. The study population would consist in about 1000 patients with ADRD. The length of follow-up of each patient will be 3 years.

>>NCT02781220
The main purpose of this study is to build upon the evidence captured in the Imaging Dementia - Evidence for Amyloid Scanning (IDEAS; NCT02420756) trial to include valuable information regarding patient-reported outcomes and physician confidence in diagnosis and management based on the Implications for Management of PET Amyloid Classification Technology (IMPACT; NCT number not yet assigned) trial design. The main purpose of this study is to build upon the evidence captured in the Imaging Dementia - Evidence for Amyloid Scanning (IDEAS; NCT02420756) trial to include valuable information regarding patient-reported outcomes and physician confidence in diagnosis and management based on the Implications for Management of PET Amyloid Classification Technology (IMPACT; NCT number not yet assigned) trial design.

>>NCT02820155
This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalating, single dose and multiple dose study. This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-escalating, single dose and multiple dose study.

>>NCT01953705
Brain scans can help identify changes that appear to increase risk for cognitive decline and dementia. Some of these brain changes are thought to reflect actual damage to the small blood vessels that support normal brain function. This clinical trial will determine whether an omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) therapy can promote brain health by supporting the small blood vessels in the brain over 3 years in older adults at high risk for cognitive decline and dementia of Alzheimer's type. Brain scans can help identify changes that appear to increase risk for cognitive decline and dementia. Some of these brain changes are thought to reflect actual damage to the small blood vessels that support normal brain function. This clinical trial will determine whether an omega 3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) therapy can promote brain health by supporting the small blood vessels in the brain over 3 years in older adults at high risk for cognitive decline and dementia of Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT01421056
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ascending oral doses of CHF 5074 after prolonged administration to patients with mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT02129348
Clinically, many patients with AD show no response or minimal response to antipsychotics for symptoms of agitation/aggression or psychosis or they have intolerable side effects on these medications. Antipsychotics have a wide range of side effects, including the risk of increased mortality (60-70% higher rate of death on antipsychotic compared to placebo) that led to an FDA black box warning for patients with dementia; a more recent review and meta-analysis showed a 54% increased risk of mortality. In addition, some patients show only partial response to antipsychotics and symptoms persist. For these reasons, the investigators need to study alternative treatment strategies. Currently, there is no FDA-approved medication for the treatment of psychosis or agitation in AD.
 The investigators innovative project will examine the efficacy and side effects of low dose lithium treatment of agitation/aggression with or without psychosis in 80 patients with AD in a randomized, doubleblind, placebo-controlled, 12-week trial (essentially a Phase II trial). The results will determine the potential for a large-scale clinical trial (Phase III) to establish the utility of lithium in these patients. Clinically, many patients with AD show no response or minimal response to antipsychotics for symptoms of agitation/aggression or psychosis or they have intolerable side effects on these medications. Antipsychotics have a wide range of side effects, including the risk of increased mortality (60-70% higher rate of death on antipsychotic compared to placebo) that led to an FDA black box warning for patients with dementia; a more recent review and meta-analysis showed a 54% increased risk of mortality. In addition, some patients show only partial response to antipsychotics and symptoms persist. For these reasons, the investigators need to study alternative treatment strategies. Currently, there is no FDA-approved medication for the treatment of psychosis or agitation in AD.
 The investigators innovative project will examine the efficacy and side effects of low dose lithium treatment of agitation/aggression with or without psychosis in 80 patients with AD in a randomized, doubleblind, placebo-controlled, 12-week trial (essentially a Phase II trial). The results will determine the potential for a large-scale clinical trial (Phase III) to establish the utility of lithium in these patients.

>>NCT01297114
This investigation is designed to study how the brain functions when it is performing explicit memory tasks and furthermore how the brain systems supporting performance on these tests change as a function of aging. Implicit memory tasks may be distinguished from explicit memory tests in that explicit memory characterizes the directed or intentional recollection of previously learned information or events. In contrast, implicit (or nonconscious) memory is expressed in the facilitation of performance on some task or judgment on a stimulus owing to a prior presentation of that stimulus, without any necessary conscious awareness of the prior presentation. The investigators propose to use functional Magnetic resonance Imaging (fMRI) to measure brain activity during the performance of carefully designed explicit memory tasks. Comparison of brain activity during the different test conditions will provide information about the brain areas that are involved in mediating specific aspects of performance. Both older and younger individuals will be tested in order to understand age related changes in the brain activity. In order to examine the interactions between participants' differential levels of amyloid burden and their performance on cognitive tasks and fMRI neural activation, the investigators also propose PET imaging of older participants.

>>NCT01009255
This study aims to evaluate the cognitive enhancing effects and tolerability of GSK239512 compared to placebo in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease This study aims to evaluate the cognitive enhancing effects and tolerability of GSK239512 compared to placebo in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01035164
PET (positron emission tomography) imaging with BAY85-8101 (ZK 6032924) in patients with Alzheimer's Disease compared to healthy volunteers.

>>NCT01827982
The purpose of this study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of JNJ-54861911 which is currently being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of JNJ-54861911 which is currently being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02793232
This study will test the safety, tolerability and blood concentrations of single and multiple oral doses of PF-06751979 in health subjects and healthy elderly subjects. PF-06751979 is being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. This study will test the safety, tolerability and blood concentrations of single and multiple oral doses of PF-06751979 in health subjects and healthy elderly subjects. PF-06751979 is being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01772537
Alzheimer's disease represents a growing public health problem in developed countries. Although the pathogenesis is not clearly defined, accumulation of extracellular amyloid, neurofibrillary tangles and neuronal loss are the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. The effect of anesthetic agents on changes in these proteins in humans is not well characterized but in-vitro evidence suggests that anesthetic agents can accelerate potential pathogenic mechanisms, such as increasing amyloid formation or rates of apoptosis in cultured cells and increasing amyloid levels in mice. Human data on the effect of anesthetic agents on amyloid and tau proteins is limited to a small series of 11 patients and showed a significant increase in tau levels after exposure to anesthetics. In this study we propose to measure CSF and serum biomarkers in a population of patients with normal CSF dynamics, who are undergoing surgery for repair of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm. We will also obtain preliminary data on whether changes in CSF levels of these proteins are associated with postoperative delirium or cognitive change.

>>NCT01013610
To evaluate the safety, tolerability, multiple dose plasma pharmacokinetics (PK) of LNK-754 in male and female elderly volunteers after dosing with LNK-754 for 7 days and in subjects with mild Alzheimer's Disease after dosing with LNK-754 for 28 days.

>>NCT00254033
Apathy or lack of motivation, affects up to 80% of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. These amotivational symptoms increase patient reliance on caregivers, increase caregiver burden and distress and increase the risk of patient institutionalization. Only 50% of patients with apathy respond to current treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors. The mechanism of apathy in AD is unknown hampering rational treatment. Our proposed pilot study will provide initial data required to develop an amphetamine challenge paradigm to probe the brain reward system. These results will be used to develop a larger study evaluating the role of the brain reward system in apathy in AD and link this information with pharmacologic treatment. AD is a complex neurobiological illness that needs to be understood at several levels to optimize treatment. At a neurochemical level, one has to identify the neurotransmitter abnormalities that accompany the clinical symptoms. The neurochemical level of analysis provides the link between pathology and symptoms and, for now, is the only avenue for biological therapies. Next, one has to translate knowledge of neurochemical abnormalities to practical treatments for the symptoms of AD. This pilot will allow us to develop a study that can address both of these goals. Furthermore, the larger study will further define the emerging concept of apathy as a syndrome and has broader implications for apathy in many other neuropsychiatric diseases.

>>NCT00202124
The purpose of this study is to determine whether tryptophan is effective in the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine whether tryptophan is effective in the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT00276510
The purpose of this study is to determine whether Tanakan is effective at slowing the progression from memory complaint to dementia of Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT00889603
The Aricept Evess study is a prospective, non-comparative, non-interventional study on use of Aricept Evess in the treatment of out-patients with AD and Vascular Dementia. The 24 week length of the study aims to collect data from a large number of patients (n= 400) on the safety and efficacy at the usual dosage of the product providing an overview of Aricept Evess profile.

>>NCT00785759
Study to Assess Brain Uptake and Safety of AH110690 (18F) Injection in Subjects with Probable Alzheimer's Disease, Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment and Healthy Volunteers.

>>NCT00287248
This research is designed to obtain efficacy and safety information for 123-I IMPY as an imaging biomarker for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The distribution of this agent will be measured by obtaining single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images of the brain serially over time to determine the relative localization of the radiopharmaceutical in regions of the cortex relative to background regions and develop an optimal technique of radiotracer administration (bolus or bolus with constant infusion). The researchers will then evaluate the utility of 123-I IMPY and SPECT in AD patients as an early diagnostic tool and subsequently serial evaluations of AD patients will be performed to determine if this technique may be useful as a tool for evaluation of progressive brain -amyloid deposition in AD. This research is designed to obtain efficacy and safety information for 123-I IMPY as an imaging biomarker for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The distribution of this agent will be measured by obtaining single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images of the brain serially over time to determine the relative localization of the radiopharmaceutical in regions of the cortex relative to background regions and develop an optimal technique of radiotracer administration (bolus or bolus with constant infusion). The researchers will then evaluate the utility of 123-I IMPY and SPECT in AD patients as an early diagnostic tool and subsequently serial evaluations of AD patients will be performed to determine if this technique may be useful as a tool for evaluation of progressive brain -amyloid deposition in AD.

>>NCT02549196
This is a Phase II, ascending dose study of CPC-201 in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type to determine the optimal dose titration schedule. This is a Phase II, ascending dose study of CPC-201 in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type to determine the optimal dose titration schedule.

>>NCT01058941
The purpose of this study is to see if taking lipoic acid plus omega-3 fatty acids (omega-3s) can slow the Alzheimer's disease (AD) process. To see if the treatment can slow the AD process, the investigators will look at changes in memory and changes in a person's daily activities over 18 months. The purpose of this study is to see if taking lipoic acid plus omega-3 fatty acids (omega-3s) can slow the Alzheimer's disease (AD) process. To see if the treatment can slow the AD process, the investigators will look at changes in memory and changes in a person's daily activities over 18 months.

>>NCT00548145
Some studies suggest that statin medications may be effective against Alzheimer's disease. However, this has not been proven. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of pitavastatin in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease and hypercholesterolemia. Some studies suggest that statin medications may be effective against Alzheimer's disease. However, this has not been proven. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of pitavastatin in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease and hypercholesterolemia.

>>NCT00543322
The purpose of this study is to quantify the brain distribution of the nicotinic receptors in human volunteers and their alterations in patients suffering from neurological diseases such as Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases and familial epilepsy. This will be done using Postron Emission Tomography (PET) and a new radiotracer of the nicotinic receptors. The purpose of this study is to quantify the brain distribution of the nicotinic receptors in human volunteers and their alterations in patients suffering from neurological diseases such as Parkinson and Alzheimer diseases and familial epilepsy. This will be done using Postron Emission Tomography (PET) and a new radiotracer of the nicotinic receptors.

>>NCT02333942
This study is being performed to generate data regarding brain vibration /oscillation differences between individuals with dementia and normal controls. The purpose of this study is to compare signal patterns generated from the impact on the scalp from these brain oscillation patterns from individuals with Alzheimer's disease, Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration, Mild Cognitive Impairment and Age-Matched Normal Controls. This study is being performed to generate data regarding brain vibration /oscillation differences between individuals with dementia and normal controls. The purpose of this study is to compare signal patterns generated from the impact on the scalp from these brain oscillation patterns from individuals with Alzheimer's disease, Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration, Mild Cognitive Impairment and Age-Matched Normal Controls.

>>NCT01397539
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a range of BIIB037 doses administered as single intravenous (IV) infusions in participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Secondary objectives of this study in this study population are to assess the pharmacokinetics(PK) and to evaluate the immunogenicity of BIIB037 after single-dose administration. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a range of BIIB037 doses administered as single intravenous (IV) infusions in participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Secondary objectives of this study in this study population are to assess the pharmacokinetics(PK) and to evaluate the immunogenicity of BIIB037 after single-dose administration.

>>NCT01125631
The purpose of the study is to examine the safety and tolerability of a multiple dose of PF-04360365 administered over approximately 10 minutes in Japanese patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease and to characterize the pharmacokinetics of PF-04360365 following administration of multiple doses in Japanese patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01145482
The study described in the present application will test the hypothesis that insulin mediated facilitation of memory in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is achieved through enhanced glutamatergic neurotransmission due to improvements in cerebral glucose metabolism. The effect of a single dose of intranasal insulin on memory and cerebral glutamate concentrations in adults with mild AD or amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), the presumed prodromal phase of AD will be studied. Successful completion of this study may set the stage for a larger-scale treatment trial of intranasal insulin for adults with memory disorders. However, the use of insulin in this manner at this point in time is purely experimental. The study described in the present application will test the hypothesis that insulin mediated facilitation of memory in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is achieved through enhanced glutamatergic neurotransmission due to improvements in cerebral glucose metabolism. The effect of a single dose of intranasal insulin on memory and cerebral glutamate concentrations in adults with mild AD or amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), the presumed prodromal phase of AD will be studied. Successful completion of this study may set the stage for a larger-scale treatment trial of intranasal insulin for adults with memory disorders. However, the use of insulin in this manner at this point in time is purely experimental.

>>NCT00499642
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo- and moxifloxacin (open-label)-controlled, 4-period crossover study.

>>NCT01522404
The purpose of this study is to find out if atomoxetine causes a change in the biologic markers (substances that may indicate the presence of a disease) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of participants diagnosed with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). In this research study, the spinal fluid of subjects with MCI who take atomoxetine will be compared to spinal fluid of those who take capsules containing inactive material, also known as placebo. At the six-month timepoint, subjects who were taking placebo during the first six months will be placed on active study medication and those who received active study medication will be reassigned to placebo. After completion of the study, subjects will be able to receive open-label atomoxetine.
 This study will also evaluate if the drug is safe and well-tolerated. Additionally, information will be gathered to identify the dose of atomoxetine that is most beneficial and how taking this medication affects thinking and behavior, as well as imaging and blood biomarkers. The results of this research will help determine if atomoxetine alters signs of inflammation and other biomarkers associated with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00752232
The study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and whether there is an immune system response to multiple doses of ACC-001 with or without the use of a substance that may increase the response to the drug.

>>NCT01554683
The main purpose of this research project is to study how seizure-like activity affects the blood flow in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Changes in blood flow can change memory and thinking ability, as happens in Alzheimer's disease. The investigators are using a study drug called Levetiracetam, which helps control seizure-like activity to see if it can help change the abnormal blood flow in the brain that is seen in some people with Alzheimer's disease. The main purpose of this research project is to study how seizure-like activity affects the blood flow in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Changes in blood flow can change memory and thinking ability, as happens in Alzheimer's disease. The investigators are using a study drug called Levetiracetam, which helps control seizure-like activity to see if it can help change the abnormal blood flow in the brain that is seen in some people with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01028209
The underlying goal of this study is to assess [18F] PBR06 PET imaging as a tool to detect microglial activation in the brain of Alzheimer Disease (AD), Parkinson Disease (PD) and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) research participants.

>>NCT00231946
The study is designed to investigate the activity of the hormone drug leuprolide acetate in stabilizing cognitive function in mild-to-moderate AD patients. The study is designed to investigate the activity of the hormone drug leuprolide acetate in stabilizing cognitive function in mild-to-moderate AD patients.

>>NCT00420420
The purpose of this study is to test the efficacy and safety of an investigational medication for improving symptoms of Alzheimer's Disease. Subjects will receive either active medication or placebo for 28 days. Tests of memory, concentration will be included. Safety will be monitored using routine clinical and laboratory tests.

>>NCT02843529
The proposed study is designed to evaluate the performance of the ALTOIDA System as a tool to assist physicians in diagnosing Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in real-world clinical settings. The design of this study is guided by two overriding factors: 1) to optimize the performance of the ALTOIDA neuromotor classifiers, the subjects making up the training sets must be well characterized as to their clinical diagnosis and 2) all ALTOIDA tests must be performed and reproduced in real-world clinical settings. The proposed study is designed to evaluate the performance of the ALTOIDA System as a tool to assist physicians in diagnosing Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in real-world clinical settings. The design of this study is guided by two overriding factors: 1) to optimize the performance of the ALTOIDA neuromotor classifiers, the subjects making up the training sets must be well characterized as to their clinical diagnosis and 2) all ALTOIDA tests must be performed and reproduced in real-world clinical settings.

>>NCT01409915
A medicine that is FDA-approved for bone marrow stimulation (called Leukine) will be tested for its ability to be tolerated by Alzheimer's disease patients and potentially to improve their memory. A medicine that is FDA-approved for bone marrow stimulation (called Leukine) will be tested for its ability to be tolerated by Alzheimer's disease patients and potentially to improve their memory.

>>NCT02570997
This is a double-blind, placebo controlled, ascending dose, multi-cohort trial. The study will be conducted in two phases: a single ascending dose (SAD) phase "Part A", followed by a multiple ascending dose (MAD) phase "Part B". In Part A, subjects will receive one dose of study drug. In Part B, subjects within a cohort will receive the same dose daily for 14 days. In both parts, sequential cohorts will be exposed to increasing doses of CT1812 in order to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). This is a double-blind, placebo controlled, ascending dose, multi-cohort trial. The study will be conducted in two phases: a single ascending dose (SAD) phase "Part A", followed by a multiple ascending dose (MAD) phase "Part B". In Part A, subjects will receive one dose of study drug. In Part B, subjects within a cohort will receive the same dose daily for 14 days. In both parts, sequential cohorts will be exposed to increasing doses of CT1812 in order to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD).

>>NCT02351453
The primary objective of AID study is to identify the medico-neuropsychological, socio-economic and environmental baseline characteristics of dyads associated with the institutionalization of AD patients. The primary objective of AID study is to identify the medico-neuropsychological, socio-economic and environmental baseline characteristics of dyads associated with the institutionalization of AD patients.

>>NCT02585934
This study seeks to confirm a demonstrated treatment effect of RVT-101 as an adjunctive therapy to donepezil for the treatment of subjects with Alzheimer's disease. This study seeks to confirm a demonstrated treatment effect of RVT-101 as an adjunctive therapy to donepezil for the treatment of subjects with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00452504
This is a first-in-humans study of SRA-444. This study will provide an initial assessment of the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of SRA-444 (SR formulation) after administration of ascending single oral doses to healthy adult subjects.

>>NCT00024531
The purpose of this study is to assess the clinical benefit of Lipitor, a cholesterol-lowering drug, in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the clinical benefit of Lipitor, a cholesterol-lowering drug, in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01282619
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Huperzine A sustained release tablets in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease. The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Huperzine A sustained release tablets in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00498602
To access the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of ACC-001, an investigational active immunization, in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01478204
The purpose of this study is to evaluate sleep quality in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease treated with anticholinesterase drugs in clinical practice. The purpose of this study is to evaluate sleep quality in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease treated with anticholinesterase drugs in clinical practice.

>>NCT02672306
The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and the efficacy of (Human Umbilical Cord-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells) UCMSCs for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and the efficacy of (Human Umbilical Cord-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells) UCMSCs for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00713765
The aims of this study are to 1) examine the effects of AZD3480 and donepezil on the blood concentrations of each other and 2) assess the safety and tolerability of the combined administration of AZD3480 with donepezil.

>>NCT02626572
The purpose of this trial is to assess the efficacy and safety of S47445 versus placebo in patients with Alzheimer's disease at mild to moderate stages with depressive symptoms. An optional 28-week extension period will be performed to evaluate safety/tolerance and efficacy of S47445 in co-administration with donepezil.

>>NCT02187627
This study is designed to obtain basic information on three PET imaging tracers developed to detect tau pathology in the brain. In this study, healthy control participants and participants with Alzheimer's disease will be studied. Information collected will include brain and plasma kinetics, tissue distribution (in the brain), radiation dosimetry and test-retest variability of the signal in the brain.

>>NCT02819700
Behavioural disorders are very common right from the initial stage of dementia and contribute to loss of autonomy. Behavioural dysexecutive disorders have a particular status due to their prevalence and their diagnostic importance, as they often constitute the initial symptoms of Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD), Semantic Dementia (SD) and Huntington's disease (HD) and they are classically more frequent in vascular dementia (VaD) than in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The presence of these disorders at the stage of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) has only been partially evaluated and would increase the risk of progression to dementia. These classical data are based on non-standardized assessments and non-validated diagnostic criteria. The Groupe de Reflexion pour l'Evaluation des Fonctions EXcutives (GREFEX) has developed a standardized assessment tool for behavioural dysexecutive disorders, the Behavioural Dysexecutive Syndrome Inventory (BDSI) and has validated diagnostic criteria for this syndrome.

>>NCT00905372
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related degenerative disorder of the brain, characterized by progressive decline in cognitive function and ability to perform activities of daily living and ultimately can lead to death due to complications of the disease. AD is thought to be caused by an excess of A-Beta amyloid, a sticky protein in the brain that forms amyloid plaques. Treatments that slow the synthesis or deposition of A-Beta amyloid or that increase clearance, might be expected to slow the progression of AD.
 LY2062430 (solanezumab) is a humanized anti-A Beta peptide immunoglobulin G-1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody being developed for the treatment of AD. The primary hypothesis being tested is that LY2062430 will slow cognitive and functional decline in AD as compared with placebo. Each patient's participation will last approximately 19 months. Patients taking approved AD medications may participate in this study and continue taking these medications during the study.

>>NCT02227953
The primary objective of this preliminary study is to investigate whether the transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) improves the cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer's disease The primary objective of this preliminary study is to investigate whether the transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) improves the cognitive function in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02172612
This will be an eight-week, prospective, placebo-controlled, randomized trial to evaluate a patient-centered team (pharmacist-physician) intervention to improve medication appropriateness and reduce the use of inappropriate anticholinergic medications in elderly patients enrolled in the Sanders-Brown Alzheimer's Disease Center (ADC) cohort. This will be an eight-week, prospective, placebo-controlled, randomized trial to evaluate a patient-centered team (pharmacist-physician) intervention to improve medication appropriateness and reduce the use of inappropriate anticholinergic medications in elderly patients enrolled in the Sanders-Brown Alzheimer's Disease Center (ADC) cohort.

>>NCT01436045
The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of the rapidly acting intranasal insulin derivative (glulisine) on memory and cognition in 12 patients suffering from mild-moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) using a double-blind placebo-controlled single dose study. This study will further assess safety of insulin glulisine as well as the effects of this drug on olfaction. The purpose of this study is to investigate the effect of the rapidly acting intranasal insulin derivative (glulisine) on memory and cognition in 12 patients suffering from mild-moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) using a double-blind placebo-controlled single dose study. This study will further assess safety of insulin glulisine as well as the effects of this drug on olfaction.

>>NCT02769234
In a previous study, NCT00582127, two age-matched cohorts, one clinically diagnosed with mild Alzheimer's disease and the other healthy controls, were tested with a hand-held EEG/ERP system to determine if the cohorts could be discriminated using the EEG/ERP measures. This study proposes to retest the AD cohort 18-60 months after their first test to characterize the change in EEG/ERP measures correlated with the longitudinal change in neuropsychological testing. In a previous study, NCT00582127, two age-matched cohorts, one clinically diagnosed with mild Alzheimer's disease and the other healthy controls, were tested with a hand-held EEG/ERP system to determine if the cohorts could be discriminated using the EEG/ERP measures. This study proposes to retest the AD cohort 18-60 months after their first test to characterize the change in EEG/ERP measures correlated with the longitudinal change in neuropsychological testing.

>>NCT01928420
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NIC5-15 in the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NIC5-15 in the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00804271
To validate a new Alzheimer's Disease scale against other rating tools in subjects with dementia of Alzheimer's type, treated with memantine.

>>NCT02556502
The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is based on clinical and neuropathological criteria.
 Some patients have a contributive CSF biology to determinate a high level risk of AD (Tau + phospho-tau ratio increased and Ab42 / decreased A40) but others have an intermediate CSF biology (Tau and/or phospho-tau increased but Ab42 ratio / normal A40) and are unclassifiable.
 18F-Florbetaben (Neuraceq), a radioisotope in positron emission tomography (PET), selectively binds to amyloid plaques, with high detection sensitivity (98%).
 Detection of amyloid plaques by PET imaging separate patients according to the criteria of Dubois, as with AD and allow them to benefit a cholinesterase inhibitor treatment.
 If negative, the diagnosis of AD can be excluded with a high level of confidence to prevent initiating unnecessary treatment, expensive for the community.
 This is the first imaging study of amyloid plaques targeting population whose diagnosis of AD is uncertain according to the CSF biology.
 The aim of this study is to describe the results of amyloid PET in case of intermediate CSF biology and to separate patients as AD or not according to the criteria of Dubois.

>>NCT01549834
This is an efficacy and safety study evaluating a new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. This is an efficacy and safety study evaluating a new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00366288
This study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of single, ascending doses of PAZ-417 in healthy young and healthy elderly subjects. The effect of a high fat meal on the metabolism of PAZ-417 will also be studied, along with blood levels of PAZ-417 . Changes in cognitive function will be assessed.

>>NCT01937221
The goal of this study is to create new retinal imaging processing software useful for the development of novel retinal biomarkers of cognitive impairment associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00001549
The purpose of this study is to improve understanding of neurological conditions. Patients participating in this study will continue receiving medical care, routine laboratory tests and diagnostics tests (X-rays, CT-scans and nuclear imaging), from their primary care physician. Doctors at the NIH plan to follow these patients and offer advice and assistance to their primary care physicians. The purpose of this study is to improve understanding of neurological conditions. Patients participating in this study will continue receiving medical care, routine laboratory tests and diagnostics tests (X-rays, CT-scans and nuclear imaging), from their primary care physician. Doctors at the NIH plan to follow these patients and offer advice and assistance to their primary care physicians.

>>NCT00094939
The goal of this project is to develop an early diagnostic test for Alzheimer's disease (AD) by monitoring loss of neurons and brain size reductions over a period of five years. The goal of this project is to develop an early diagnostic test for Alzheimer's disease (AD) by monitoring loss of neurons and brain size reductions over a period of five years.

>>NCT00001235
Alzheimer's disease is a condition marked by the deterioration of mental function. The disease usually begins in late middle life and results in death in 5 to 10 years. Patients with Alzheimer's disease typically suffer from memory loss, confusion and disorientation. The condition has become a major medical and social problem in the United States because of the increasing number of people living beyond the age of 65. The actual cause of Alzheimer's disease is unknown.
 Researchers believe that Alzheimer's disease or at least a portion of cases, may be an inherited condition. As a result, many new techniques have been developed to study the genetic causes of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. Many of these genetic techniques require blood samples and a family pedigree. A pedigree is a chart, similar to a family tree, that shows a patient's family history.
 The purpose of this study is to collect family and psychosocial information, blood and biopsy samples from patients with neurological diseases, their families and normal volunteers. This information gathered will be used to learn more about diseases that affect the brain. Alzheimer's disease is a condition marked by the deterioration of mental function. The disease usually begins in late middle life and results in death in 5 to 10 years. Patients with Alzheimer's disease typically suffer from memory loss, confusion and disorientation. The condition has become a major medical and social problem in the United States because of the increasing number of people living beyond the age of 65. The actual cause of Alzheimer's disease is unknown.
 Researchers believe that Alzheimer's disease or at least a portion of cases, may be an inherited condition. As a result, many new techniques have been developed to study the genetic causes of Alzheimer's disease and other neurological disorders. Many of these genetic techniques require blood samples and a family pedigree. A pedigree is a chart, similar to a family tree, that shows a patient's family history.
 The purpose of this study is to collect family and psychosocial information, blood and biopsy samples from patients with neurological diseases, their families and normal volunteers. This information gathered will be used to learn more about diseases that affect the brain.

>>NCT00053599
CLASP is a research study to investigate the safety and effectiveness of simvastatin (a cholesterol lowering drug or statin) to slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Statins are commonly used to treat high cholesterol levels, which increase the risk of heart disease and stroke. CLASP is a research study to investigate the safety and effectiveness of simvastatin (a cholesterol lowering drug or statin) to slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Statins are commonly used to treat high cholesterol levels, which increase the risk of heart disease and stroke.

>>NCT00711204
A 12-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase IV study. Approximately 200 subjects will be enrolled, half will receive active drug (donepezil hydrochloride) and half will receive matching placebo at approximately 50 research sites within the US, the European Union, South Africa and Australia. Eligible subjects will reside at home, in an assisted living facility or nursing homes age and will be 50 years or older, with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in the severe stage. All subjects must start with 5mg a day (one 5 mg tablet of donepezil HCL or matching placebo). Dose will be increased to 10 mg a day (two tablets of 5 mg donepezil HCL or matching placebo) after 4 weeks. Dose may be decreased based on side effects. The primary efficacy measure will be the Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia (CSDD). Secondary measures will include Functional Assessment Staging (FAST), Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), NPI-10 (Neuropsychiatric Inventory), DEMQOL Proxy ( Quality of Life). Blood levels of cytokines and safety will also be assessed.

>>NCT02245737
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of LY3314814 compared with placebo administered for 104 weeks in the treatment of early Alzheimers disease. The study will test the hypothesis that LY3314814 is a disease-modifying treatment for participants with early Alzheimers disease, defined as the continuum of participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimers disease and participants diagnosed with mild dementia of the Alzheimers type, as measured by change from baseline in the Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes score at week 104 in each of the 2 LY3314814 treatment groups compared with placebo. The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of LY3314814 compared with placebo administered for 104 weeks in the treatment of early Alzheimers disease. The study will test the hypothesis that LY3314814 is a disease-modifying treatment for participants with early Alzheimers disease, defined as the continuum of participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimers disease and participants diagnosed with mild dementia of the Alzheimers type, as measured by change from baseline in the Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes score at week 104 in each of the 2 LY3314814 treatment groups compared with placebo.

>>NCT00998764
The purpose of this study is to assess the long-term safety and tolerability of bapineuzumab in subjects with Alzheimer Disease who participated in study 3133K1-3001(NCT00676143). Over 250 sites will participate in over 26 countries. Subjects will receive bapineuzumab. Each subject's participation will last approximately 4 years.

>>NCT01716897
This study will be a single-center, open-label, randomized, 3-treatment crossover study of single oral doses of an API-capsule formulation of E2609 under fasted conditions and a tablet formulation administered under fed and fasted conditions in healthy subjects.

>>NCT01677572
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of Aducanumab (recombinant, fully human anti-A IgG1 mAb) in participants with prodromal or mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The secondary objectives of this study are to assess the effect on cerebral amyloid plaque content as measured by florbetapir-fluorine-18 (18F-AV-45F-AV-45) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, to assess the multiple dose serum concentrations of Aducanumab and to evaluate the immunogenicity of Aducanumab after multiple dose administration in this population. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of Aducanumab (recombinant, fully human anti-A IgG1 mAb) in participants with prodromal or mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The secondary objectives of this study are to assess the effect on cerebral amyloid plaque content as measured by florbetapir-fluorine-18 (18F-AV-45F-AV-45) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, to assess the multiple dose serum concentrations of Aducanumab and to evaluate the immunogenicity of Aducanumab after multiple dose administration in this population.

>>NCT01743534
The insanities, priority of public health in 2008, have significant prevalency in Limousin, region in the ageing demography (1 - 3 of the population is more than 60 years old against 1 - 5th of average in France). To prevent the lack of therapeutic solutions, for these evolutionary diseases, the new plan Alzheimer 2008-2012 encourages the research.
 The insanities deprive gradually the individual of their autonomy, their personality and their identity. The help of an institution is sometimes inevitable. In the middle of this stressful environment, the patient affected by severe insanity, need marks.
 The aspect of their old objects, significant for them, has to be prioritized because the institutional universe, often depersonalized doesn't mean anything for them. In front of repeated failures, they're hurt in their self respect.
 The prevention of the undernutrition, comes by a preservation of praxis and pleasure at table. The institutional plate used in certain hospital sectors, is unpersonal (rectangular, divided) and can be destabilizing for the mentally ill person.

>>NCT01029132
To investigate the characteristics of treatment responders to galantamine. To investigate the characteristics of treatment responders to galantamine.

>>NCT00110552
The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of the herb sage in improving the mental function of individuals with Alzheimer's disease.
 Study hypothesis: The administration of sage will improve cognitive function in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of the herb sage in improving the mental function of individuals with Alzheimer's disease.
 Study hypothesis: The administration of sage will improve cognitive function in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02811653
In AD (Alzheimer disease), the anatomic correlates of attention disorders (as evaluated by motor slowing) have not been thoroughly characterized.

>>NCT02051361
Coronary artery stents, particularly drug-eluting stents (DES), are used in the majority of patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to improve symptoms in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease. They function both to prevent abrupt closure of the stented artery soon after the procedure as well as to lower the need for repeat revascularization compared to balloon angioplasty alone . Stent restenosis and stent thrombosis are potential complications of coronary artery stenting; their incidence is highest in the first year after PCI. Stent restenosis, which occurs more frequently with bare metal stents (BMS) than DES, may occasionally present as an acute myocardial infarction (MI). Stent thrombosis is an uncommon but serious complication that often presents as death and is almost always accompanied by MI, usually with ST-segment elevation. Patients are commonly treated with dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) for the recommended duration for the particular stent. DAPT (aspirin plus platelet P2Y12 receptor blocker) and significantly lowers the risk of stent thrombosis. Coronary artery stents, particularly drug-eluting stents (DES), are used in the majority of patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) to improve symptoms in patients with obstructive coronary artery disease. They function both to prevent abrupt closure of the stented artery soon after the procedure as well as to lower the need for repeat revascularization compared to balloon angioplasty alone . Stent restenosis and stent thrombosis are potential complications of coronary artery stenting; their incidence is highest in the first year after PCI. Stent restenosis, which occurs more frequently with bare metal stents (BMS) than DES, may occasionally present as an acute myocardial infarction (MI). Stent thrombosis is an uncommon but serious complication that often presents as death and is almost always accompanied by MI, usually with ST-segment elevation. Patients are commonly treated with dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) for the recommended duration for the particular stent. DAPT (aspirin plus platelet P2Y12 receptor blocker) and significantly lowers the risk of stent thrombosis.

>>NCT02423122
This study will assess the effects of administration of VX-745 for 12 weeks on amyloid plaque burden in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Subjects who meet entry criteria will undergo 11C-PiB (Carbon-11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B) positron emission tomography (PET) at baseline and after 45 days of dosing with VX-745. Cognitive testing will also be conducted at baseline and day 45.

>>NCT02322021
This is a Phase 2 study to evaluate safety and efficacy in participants with Mild Cognitive Impairment due to Alzheimer's Disease/Prodromal Alzheimer's Disease (referred to as MCI/Prodromal) and mild to moderate dementia due to Alzheimer's Disease (referred to as mild to moderate AD).

>>NCT01309763
This is a randomized, controlled, parallel group, patient-blinded, single-center, phase I pilot study to assess tolerability and safety of repeated subcutaneous administration of a single-dose of AFFITOPE AD03 applied with or without adjuvant to patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01903421
Many elderly patients undergoing surgical procedures already have impaired cognitive (memory/concentration) status. Patients with pre-existing cognitive impairment or dementia, may benefit from modified anesthesia techniques. It is estimated that one in eight people age 65 and older has Alzheimer's disease. More so, nearly half of people that are 85 years or older have Alzheimer's disease. Currently, both spinal (regional) and inhalational (general) anesthesia, are used in patients undergoing common urological, orthopedic and general surgical procedures. Inhalational anesthesia has been associated with higher risk of memory impairment in experimental (animal) and human studies. However, currently, there are simply no large or good enough studies to be sure that inhalational anesthesia is responsible for causing dementia and Alzheimer's disease.The proposed study investigates if elderly patients (65 years and older) undergoing spinal anesthesia (patient is awake or slightly sedated) are less likely to develop dementia and Alzheimer's disease for up to 2 years after surgery, when compared to inhalational anesthesia (patient is kept asleep with gas anesthetic). The investigators will also test all patients for the presence of apolipoprotein (ApoE-4 type of gene that is present in 15-20% of patients) and beta-amyloid tau protein (present in cerebrospinal fluid) that are known risk factors for Alzheimer's disease. The particular strength of this study is that it takes into account whether the frequency and/or severity of dementia and Alzheimer's disease is different in patients with and without these markers. The investigators believe that this study will make a major contribution to better understanding of development of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00099710
The purpose of this study is to examine the safety and tolerability of curcumin and to determine its effect on patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to examine the safety and tolerability of curcumin and to determine its effect on patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT01539031
The purpose of this study is to compare 23 mg donepezil sustained release to the currently marketed formulation of 10 mg donepezil immediate release in patients with severe Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00582855
This study will investigate AQW051 in patients with either mild Alzheimer's disease or amnestic mild cognitive impairment. The effect on cognitive impairment will be measure using validated computerized tests which measure cognitive function. This study will also explore the safety and tolerability of AQW051 in these patients.

>>NCT01505504
Weight loss is a frequent problem associated with Alzheimers disease (AD). Mirtazapine has weight loss as a frequent side effect.
 The aim of this retrospective study is to check whether mirtazapine 30 mg (once daily) can counteract weight loss in patients with AD or mixed dementia (AD + vascular).

>>NCT00544791
Recent studies have described the role of melatonin as a sleep regulator and as an anti- oxidative neuroprotective agent in improving sleep quality and delaying cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 In accordance with this data, our hypothesis is that melatonin will delay the cognitive decline in Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) patients and reduce the conversion rate from MCI to AD.

>>NCT02835716
This Observational protocol will attempt to verify two recent and very critical concepts in ALZ Clinical Research by studying high-risk individuals who already are taking medications which may prevent the onset of ALZ.
 - It is possible to diagnose the future development of ALZ in a preclinical state in a cognitively normal but high risk individual at least 18-24 months before any symptoms develop of cognitive impairment.
 - Early treatment of these cognitively normal high-risk persons with subclinical pre-ALZ can prevent of delay the occurrence and severity of ALZ.
 This protocol is not designed nor intended to diagnose or treat ALZ, nor develop or use medications or diagnostic neuroimaging outside of already approved and accepted parameters. Treatment decisions ultimately rest between each study participant and their treating and primary care physicians.
 Persons who volunteer to be study subjects in this protocol will be under the care of their primary care / specialty physician, who will order tests and treatments as they see appropriate.
 Treatments will be prescribed by the Primary Medical Doctor (PMD) / specialist whether or not potential study participants choose to participate in this study. This Observational protocol will attempt to verify two recent and very critical concepts in ALZ Clinical Research by studying high-risk individuals who already are taking medications which may prevent the onset of ALZ.
 - It is possible to diagnose the future development of ALZ in a preclinical state in a cognitively normal but high risk individual at least 18-24 months before any symptoms develop of cognitive impairment.
 - Early treatment of these cognitively normal high-risk persons with subclinical pre-ALZ can prevent of delay the occurrence and severity of ALZ.
 This protocol is not designed nor intended to diagnose or treat ALZ, nor develop or use medications or diagnostic neuroimaging outside of already approved and accepted parameters. Treatment decisions ultimately rest between each study participant and their treating and primary care physicians.
 Persons who volunteer to be study subjects in this protocol will be under the care of their primary care / specialty physician, who will order tests and treatments as they see appropriate.
 Treatments will be prescribed by the Primary Medical Doctor (PMD) / specialist whether or not potential study participants choose to participate in this study.

>>NCT02388152
The purpose of this study is to determine if multiple immunizations with Lu AF20513 is tolerable and safe in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00495417
The purpose of this study is to assess the tolerability and safety of repeated subcutaneous injection of a single dose of Affitope AD01 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the tolerability and safety of repeated subcutaneous injection of a single dose of Affitope AD01 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02164643
A Multicenter national longitudinal cohort study including at least 800 individuals consecutively recruited from French Research Memory Centers and followed-up over 24 month and included in Memento. A Multicenter national longitudinal cohort study including at least 800 individuals consecutively recruited from French Research Memory Centers and followed-up over 24 month and included in Memento.

>>NCT00479843
The main objective of this study is the improvement of the quality of life and state of health of elderly people with cognitive deterioration and their families through a weight loss prevention programme.
 The secondary objectives are the improvement of the state of nutrition, a reduction in the use of resources and a reduction in the burden on the main carer. The main objective of this study is the improvement of the quality of life and state of health of elderly people with cognitive deterioration and their families through a weight loss prevention programme.
 The secondary objectives are the improvement of the state of nutrition, a reduction in the use of resources and a reduction in the burden on the main carer.

>>NCT01047254
Apathy in dementia prevents successful application of non-pharmacological treatments, accelerates cognitive and functional decline and increases disease-related costs by earlier need for full-time care. Apathy is a distinct entity and occurs independently of other neuropsychiatric syndromes, like depression.
 Today, there is no high-level evidence for any effective treatment of apathy in AD. In contrast to other neuropsychiatric syndromes in AD, like psychosis and depression and despite its high prevalence and clinical relevance, apathy has never been the primary outcome in a clinical trial. Basic and clinical research has provided a distinct model of the pathophysiology of apathy with dopamine and norepinephrine as the key neurotransmitter systems involved. The antidepressant Bupropion is a dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. There is evidence from case-series, that Bupropion reduces apathy in patients with organic brain disorders. This study will test the efficacy and safety of Bupropion in the treatment of apathy in AD in a 12-week multicenter doubleblind placebo controlled trial. Secondary endpoints will be quality of life of patients, caregivers' distress, ability of patients to perform activities of daily living,utilization of healthcare resources by patients and by caregivers and cognitive functions.

>>NCT02848404
The purpose of this study is to examine therapeutic efficacy of catergorical language fluency smartphone game apllication in mild congnitive imapirment and mild Alzheimer's dementia. The purpose of this study is to examine therapeutic efficacy of catergorical language fluency smartphone game apllication in mild congnitive imapirment and mild Alzheimer's dementia.

>>NCT01348061
This is an experimental medicine study to evaluate the kinetics of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) compared to healthy controls using a heavy water (2H2O) labeling method. This study is exploring the time profile of appearance and disappearance of pulse deuterium-labeled cargo proteins in CSF of subjects with AD and/or PSP, which is different from healthy controls, due to deficits in fast axonal transport. This is an experimental medicine study to evaluate the kinetics of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) compared to healthy controls using a heavy water (2H2O) labeling method. This study is exploring the time profile of appearance and disappearance of pulse deuterium-labeled cargo proteins in CSF of subjects with AD and/or PSP, which is different from healthy controls, due to deficits in fast axonal transport.

>>NCT01554202
According to estimations, Alzheimer's disease affects approximately 860000 people aged of more than 65 years in France. This disease is characterized by disorders of cognitive functions, including memory, associated with structural and functional modifications of the brain. These changes are evolving within the pathology progression and can be evaluated with neuropsychological tests (to assess capabilities such as language, orientation, etc.) and also with brain imaging (e.g. MRI). Alzheimer's disease is still poorly understood, nevertheless currently available treatments can slow its development if the disease is diagnosed early enough.
 Thus, the objective is to identify markers for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, to better describe the evolution of this disease.
 The three main objectives of this project are.
 - to identify, compare and combine predictive markers of Alzheimer's disease.
 - to make a significant contribution to the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease.
 - to study the ability of different neuroimaging techniques to follow the evolution of this pathology.

>>NCT00443014
The Dementia Study in Northern Norway is an open controled intervention trial carried out in nine rural municipalities, five of which allocated to intervention and four to control. A RCT with donepezil and placebo is superimposed on all patients included in the study. In this way the study has a 2x2 factorial design. The outcome measures are changes in cognitive performance and ADL function measured by standardized cognitive and neuropsychological tests every four months during a one-year follow-up.
 The main goal of this study is to examine the effect of systematically and individually adjusted stimulation therapy on cognitive function in patients having recent diagnoses of Alzheimers disease (AD).
 A secondary goal is to examine whether or not ChEI has an additional effect on cognitive function superimposed on stimulation therapy.
 From January 2006 to 31th March 2008 187 patients with a recent diagnosis of dementia were included. Patients were recruited by GPs in routine practice (n=87) and by a population based screening (n=100).Screening recruited younger patients with a higher MMSE-score and relatively more men. All over, women were older and at a more serious disease stage. After age adjusting significantly more women were living single and required more supports from the community nursery. The Dementia Study in Northern Norway is an open controled intervention trial carried out in nine rural municipalities, five of which allocated to intervention and four to control. A RCT with donepezil and placebo is superimposed on all patients included in the study. In this way the study has a 2x2 factorial design. The outcome measures are changes in cognitive performance and ADL function measured by standardized cognitive and neuropsychological tests every four months during a one-year follow-up.
 The main goal of this study is to examine the effect of systematically and individually adjusted stimulation therapy on cognitive function in patients having recent diagnoses of Alzheimers disease (AD).
 A secondary goal is to examine whether or not ChEI has an additional effect on cognitive function superimposed on stimulation therapy.
 From January 2006 to 31th March 2008 187 patients with a recent diagnosis of dementia were included. Patients were recruited by GPs in routine practice (n=87) and by a population based screening (n=100).Screening recruited younger patients with a higher MMSE-score and relatively more men. All over, women were older and at a more serious disease stage. After age adjusting significantly more women were living single and required more supports from the community nursery.

>>NCT00041678
The purpose of this study is to learn if aripiprazole is safe and effective in the treatment of psychosis associated with dementia of the Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT00464334
The purpose of this study is to test the safety, tolerability and the immune response to an investigational vaccine, V950, with or without ISCOMATRIX (IMX).

>>NCT01202994
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of progressive cognitive decline in the United States. AD is characterized by severe impairments in learning, memory and other cognitive abilities that significantly interfere with daily functioning. The neuropathologic hallmarks of AD consist of neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and selective neuronal cell loss. Amyloid plaques, which contain Abeta protein, are believed to play an integral role in the development of AD. Elevated levels of Abeta in the brain are also correlated with cognitive decline.
 Alzheimer's (AD) develops insidiously, making it difficult to identify early, yet treatment is most effective when begun during the early stages of the disease. Thus, it has become important for researchers to identify markers of early AD. This project will examine the relationship between four potential markers that may indicate the early development of AD:.
 1. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI)or normal cognition.
 2. Practice effects.
 3. Amyloid plaque binding on 18F-PIB PET.
 4. Glucose hypometabolism on FDG PET.
 This project will recruit 25 subjects from an ongoing community-based study of memory and practice effects in cognitively normal, community-dwelling individuals who are age 65 and over (NIA .
5K23AG028417-05). Each subject will undergo positron emission tomography (PET) with both 18F-Flutemetamol and FDG.
 The overall objective of this companion project is to study the biodistribution and binding of 18F-Flutemetamol in these subjects using PET imaging, which will provide biological evidence to support the overall hypothesis that failure to benefit from practice on a learning paradigm is an early marker of AD. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of progressive cognitive decline in the United States. AD is characterized by severe impairments in learning, memory and other cognitive abilities that significantly interfere with daily functioning. The neuropathologic hallmarks of AD consist of neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and selective neuronal cell loss. Amyloid plaques, which contain Abeta protein, are believed to play an integral role in the development of AD. Elevated levels of Abeta in the brain are also correlated with cognitive decline.
 Alzheimer's (AD) develops insidiously, making it difficult to identify early, yet treatment is most effective when begun during the early stages of the disease. Thus, it has become important for researchers to identify markers of early AD. This project will examine the relationship between four potential markers that may indicate the early development of AD:.
 1. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI)or normal cognition.
 2. Practice effects.
 3. Amyloid plaque binding on 18F-PIB PET.
 4. Glucose hypometabolism on FDG PET.
 This project will recruit 25 subjects from an ongoing community-based study of memory and practice effects in cognitively normal, community-dwelling individuals who are age 65 and over (NIA .
5K23AG028417-05). Each subject will undergo positron emission tomography (PET) with both 18F-Flutemetamol and FDG.
 The overall objective of this companion project is to study the biodistribution and binding of 18F-Flutemetamol in these subjects using PET imaging, which will provide biological evidence to support the overall hypothesis that failure to benefit from practice on a learning paradigm is an early marker of AD.

>>NCT00479440
To assess the safety and tolerability of ascending single oral doses of SAM-315, an investigational drug, in healthy adult subjects. To obtain a preliminary pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profiles of SAM-315 in healthy subjects and to evaluate the effect of a high-fat meal on the PK of SAM-315, an investigation drug, administered to healthy adult subjects.

>>NCT01628653
The purpose of this study is to examine feasibility and efficacy of the Ubiquitous Spaced Retrieval-based Memory Advancement and Rehabilitation Training (U-SMART) in the elderly individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The purpose of this study is to examine feasibility and efficacy of the Ubiquitous Spaced Retrieval-based Memory Advancement and Rehabilitation Training (U-SMART) in the elderly individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

>>NCT02795780
This study will evaluate longitudinal change of tau deposition as measured by 18F-AV-1451 uptake over time.

>>NCT01871610
There will be 200 participants, who aged 30 years or older with TBI in 1.5,10.15 years ago and GCS=13-15 will be recruited. Another group of 200 participants with the same age and gender and without TBI will be recruited as the controls. All of them will undergo AD8 questionnaire for dementia screening and APOE4 genotyping. Further CASI and CDR will be tested for the confirmation of dementia diagnosis for the individuals with AD8 scaore >/=2. 10 TBI with dementia, 20 TBI without dementia and 10 controls will be selected randomly for AV45 amylid PET study.
 There will also be 10 participants without traumatic brain injury and interested in this study, aged 55 years or older better. There will be 200 participants, who aged 30 years or older with TBI in 1.5,10.15 years ago and GCS=13-15 will be recruited. Another group of 200 participants with the same age and gender and without TBI will be recruited as the controls. All of them will undergo AD8 questionnaire for dementia screening and APOE4 genotyping. Further CASI and CDR will be tested for the confirmation of dementia diagnosis for the individuals with AD8 scaore >/=2. 10 TBI with dementia, 20 TBI without dementia and 10 controls will be selected randomly for AV45 amylid PET study.
 There will also be 10 participants without traumatic brain injury and interested in this study, aged 55 years or older better.

>>NCT02331784
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of the experimental treatment (cognitive training) further outlined in this protocol on the cognitive abilities (e.g., processing speed, attention, working memory and executive function), brain functionality, functional status and quality of life of individuals with age-related cognitive decline as compared to a computer-based active control. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of the experimental treatment (cognitive training) further outlined in this protocol on the cognitive abilities (e.g., processing speed, attention, working memory and executive function), brain functionality, functional status and quality of life of individuals with age-related cognitive decline as compared to a computer-based active control.

>>NCT02740634
This is a neuroimaging study designed to learn more about amyloid and tau burden in the brain of patients with Atypical Alzheimer's Disease and how burden may change over a two-year period.

>>NCT00842673
This study will investigate the ability of ST101 to improve memory in people with Alzheimer's disease. This study also will examine the safety and tolerability of the drug. This study is evaluating 3 different dose levels of ST101 and placebo. Patients will have a 1 in 4 chance of getting placebo. This study will investigate the ability of ST101 to improve memory in people with Alzheimer's disease. This study also will examine the safety and tolerability of the drug. This study is evaluating 3 different dose levels of ST101 and placebo. Patients will have a 1 in 4 chance of getting placebo.

>>NCT00550420
This is a Phase III, multicenter, open-label extension, single-group study in male and female outpatients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) who have completed AVA105640. All subjects will receive rosiglitazone extended-release (RSG XR) 4mg once daily for the first 4 weeks of the study followed by 8mg RSG XR. Subject participation will last until one of 5 conditions applies. After a 52-week open-label treatment phase, subjects will attend a final Follow-Up Visit 6 weeks after the end of treatment. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of RSG XR in subjects with mild-to-moderate AD who have completed AVA105640. The secondary objective of this study is to explore further the long-term efficacy of RSG XR in terms of cognitive function and overall clinical response as a function of apolipoprotein E (APOE) e4 allele status.

>>NCT00611312
The purpose of this study is to see if an intense two-week long cognitive training program helps the thinking ability of adults with very mild Alzheimer Disease. We anticipate that scores on clinical cognitive tests will be better after the training. The purpose of this study is to see if an intense two-week long cognitive training program helps the thinking ability of adults with very mild Alzheimer Disease. We anticipate that scores on clinical cognitive tests will be better after the training.

>>NCT01467726
This is a Phase 1, Randomized, PlaceboControlled, DoubleBlind, Study of Safety, Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacodynamics of Velusetrag in Healthy Elderly Subjects.

>>NCT00480701
The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I IBVM SPECT imaging as a tool to assess cholinergic transporter binding in the brain of AD and PD research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects. The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I IBVM SPECT imaging as a tool to assess cholinergic transporter binding in the brain of AD and PD research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects.

>>NCT00357357
The purpose of this Phase II study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of HF 0220 in patients with Alzheimer's disease compared to placebo (inactive substance). The study will also validate biochemical markers as appropriate clinical end-points and to assess the suitability of chosen dose levels for future clinical studies.

>>NCT01835717
Before Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical symptoms appear, there is a long period when changes in the brain occur. In this long asymptomatic period or preclinical phase, studies with populations at risk of developing AD have shown cognitive differences compared to control groups without such risk. There is a need for short, sensitive, easily administered, reproducible, non-expensive and independent of socio-demographic influences tests enabling the detection of pre-symptomatic variations in memory, when the memory decline is still within a normal range.
 Study hypothesis: When evaluated with high-demanding tests of memory and executive function, the cognitive performance of cognitive healthy people aged between 45 and 65, will vary significantly depending on clinical, socio-demographic and genetic features Before Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical symptoms appear, there is a long period when changes in the brain occur. In this long asymptomatic period or preclinical phase, studies with populations at risk of developing AD have shown cognitive differences compared to control groups without such risk. There is a need for short, sensitive, easily administered, reproducible, non-expensive and independent of socio-demographic influences tests enabling the detection of pre-symptomatic variations in memory, when the memory decline is still within a normal range.
 Study hypothesis: When evaluated with high-demanding tests of memory and executive function, the cognitive performance of cognitive healthy people aged between 45 and 65, will vary significantly depending on clinical, socio-demographic and genetic features.

>>NCT02649985
The specific aims of the study are:.
 Primary: To determine the presence and regional distribution of microglial activation, as assessed by Fluorine-18 (18F) labeled "Peripheral Benzodiazepine Receptor 06" (PBR06) -PET, in subjects with active Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis (RRMS), Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis (SPMS) and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) as compared to healthy controls.
 Secondary:.
 1. To assess the relationship between microglial activation and clinical variables including disease severity and comorbidities (such as pain, fatigue and/or depression), as well as clinical MRI findings (such as lesions and atrophy).
 2. A pilot substudy aims to establish the non-inferiority of [F-18]PBR06 as compared with Carbon-11 [C-11] labeled "Peripheral Benzodiazepine Receptor 28" (PBR28) PET in patients with RRMS.
 Hypothesis: The working hypothesis is that there is microglial activation in multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease as compared to healthy controls and that the pattern/ regional distribution of microglial activation is different in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) versus AD and correlates with disease severity and comorbidities.
 In addition, the investigators hypothesize that [F-18]PBR06-PET scans will be at least as good as [C-11]PBR28-PET scans, the current gold standard. The specific aims of the study are:.
 Primary: To determine the presence and regional distribution of microglial activation, as assessed by Fluorine-18 (18F) labeled "Peripheral Benzodiazepine Receptor 06" (PBR06) -PET, in subjects with active Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis (RRMS), Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis (SPMS) and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) as compared to healthy controls.
 Secondary:.
 1. To assess the relationship between microglial activation and clinical variables including disease severity and comorbidities (such as pain, fatigue and/or depression), as well as clinical MRI findings (such as lesions and atrophy).
 2. A pilot substudy aims to establish the non-inferiority of [F-18]PBR06 as compared with Carbon-11 [C-11] labeled "Peripheral Benzodiazepine Receptor 28" (PBR28) PET in patients with RRMS.
 Hypothesis: The working hypothesis is that there is microglial activation in multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease as compared to healthy controls and that the pattern/ regional distribution of microglial activation is different in Multiple Sclerosis (MS) versus AD and correlates with disease severity and comorbidities.
 In addition, the investigators hypothesize that [F-18]PBR06-PET scans will be at least as good as [C-11]PBR28-PET scans, the current gold standard.

>>NCT00462917
The purpose of this study is to provide healthy adults with genetic testing and information about their chances of developing Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to provide healthy adults with genetic testing and information about their chances of developing Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01571427
Past epidemiological studies have demonstrated that larger social networks or more frequent social interactions, could have potential protective effects on the incidence of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). However, in those studies, indicators of social interactions were often broad and included distinct elements that affected cognition and overall health. the investigators will examine whether conversation-based cognitive stimulations have positive effects on general and domain-specific cognitive functions among the elderly. Face-to-face communication will be conducted through the use of personal computers, webcams and user-friendly simple interactive Internet programs to allow participants to have social engagement while staying at their home and also for the cost effective execution of the study.

>>NCT00548951
To determine the connection between Social Withdrawal and Sensory Deprivation in elderly clients with Alzheimer's Type Dementia (i.e. how providing sensory stimulation might reduce social withdrawal). To determine the connection between Social Withdrawal and Sensory Deprivation in elderly clients with Alzheimer's Type Dementia (i.e. how providing sensory stimulation might reduce social withdrawal).

>>NCT01550172
The purpose of the study is to determine whether a combined intervention of a night home monitoring system and cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBTi) is effective in improving sleep in dementia caregivers who arise at night. The purpose of the study is to determine whether a combined intervention of a night home monitoring system and cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBTi) is effective in improving sleep in dementia caregivers who arise at night.

>>NCT02007291
Life expectancy in Brazil has increased markedly over the last 30 years. Hence, age-related disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), warrant special attention due to their high prevalence in the elderly. Pharmacologic treatment of AD is based on cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEI) and memantine, leading to modest clinical benefits both in the short and long-term.
 However, clinical response is heterogeneous and needs further investigation. Objective: To investigate the rate of response to ChEI in AD after three months of treatment. Methods: Patients with mild or moderate dementia due to probable AD or to AD associated with cerebrovascular disease were included in the study. Life expectancy in Brazil has increased markedly over the last 30 years. Hence, age-related disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), warrant special attention due to their high prevalence in the elderly. Pharmacologic treatment of AD is based on cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEI) and memantine, leading to modest clinical benefits both in the short and long-term.
 However, clinical response is heterogeneous and needs further investigation. Objective: To investigate the rate of response to ChEI in AD after three months of treatment. Methods: Patients with mild or moderate dementia due to probable AD or to AD associated with cerebrovascular disease were included in the study.

>>NCT02155946
The aging US population threatens to overwhelm our healthcare infrastructure, especially since the rate of Alzheimer's disease (AD) alone is expected to triple in the coming decades. Memory cause functional impairment, reduced quality of life, increased caregiver burnout and eventual institutionalization. The diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) identifies those with memory deficits but who remain relatively independent in everyday life. MCI provides a window for interventions that target memory functioning. The proposed study focuses specifically on a groundbreaking combination of mnemonic rehabilitation and non-invasive brain stimulation. The main idea is that brain stimulation can enhance functioning in the specific brain regions/networks, thereby increasing the patients' ability to benefit from different types of memory rehabilitation. This will be a randomized, double-blind study (active vs. fake brain stimulation), that provides multiple treatment session. Outcome will be examined using both laboratory-based and real-world memory testing as well as brain imaging. This first-of-its-kind study has the potential to meaningfully translate more "basic" science findings into neuroanatomically targeted and functionally meaningful treatments for our aging population.

>>NCT00886951
The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 - To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I MNI-388 and MNI 390, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged Alzheimer's (AD) subjects and healthy controls.
 - To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I MNI-388 and MNI-390 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I MNI-388 and MNI 390 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 - To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I MNI-388 and MNI 390, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged Alzheimer's (AD) subjects and healthy controls.
 - To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I MNI-388 and MNI-390 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I MNI-388 and MNI 390 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.

>>NCT01885806
We aim to evaluate the safety and efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) for apathy treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We hypothesize that rTMS will be superior to placebo to reduce apathy symptoms and severity in patients with AD. We aim to evaluate the safety and efficacy of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) for apathy treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We hypothesize that rTMS will be superior to placebo to reduce apathy symptoms and severity in patients with AD.

>>NCT02185053
This is a Phase II, Single-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Sequential Treatment, Multiple Ascending Dose Study to Evaluate the Safety and Tolerability of CPC-201 in Patients with Alzheimer's Disease Type Dementia.

>>NCT02414178
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate a new radioactive compound used in positron emission tomography (PET) scans in identifying tau tangles (a certain protein that might be associated with Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer's Disease) in the brain and if the amount of tau tangles in the brain has a relationship to cognitive status.
 This study involves a PET scans using the radioactive compound, F 18 T807 for measurement of tau deposition. This radioactive compound is not approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). An MRI may also be conducted. The purpose of this research study is to evaluate a new radioactive compound used in positron emission tomography (PET) scans in identifying tau tangles (a certain protein that might be associated with Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer's Disease) in the brain and if the amount of tau tangles in the brain has a relationship to cognitive status.
 This study involves a PET scans using the radioactive compound, F 18 T807 for measurement of tau deposition. This radioactive compound is not approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA). An MRI may also be conducted.

>>NCT00824590
This study is to compare the pharmacokinetics of Dimebon in subjects with severe renal impairment to subjects with normal renal function after oral administration of a single oral 20-mg dose of Dimebon. This study is also to assess the safety and tolerability of a single oral 20-mg dose of Dimebon in subjects with severe renal impairment and subjects with normal renal function.

>>NCT01767311
This is a multinational, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study using a Bayesian design with response adaptive randomization across placebo or 5 active arms of BAN2401 to determine clinical efficacy and to explore the dose response of BAN2401 using a composite clinical score (ADCOMS). BAN2401-G000-201 is an 18-month study in which 3 dose levels (2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg) are given biweekly (once every 2 weeks) to separate groups of participants and 2 dose levels (5 and 10 mg/kg) are given monthly to separate groups of participants. Participants will be from 2 clinical subgroups: mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) or mild Alzheimer's disease dementia. Frequent interim analyses will be conducted to continually update randomization allocation on the basis of the primary clinical endpoint.

>>NCT01314638
The purpose of this study is to measure the adherence to "Siel bleu" balance exercises in patients with Alzheimer's disease, while taking into account the disease stages. The purpose of this study is to measure the adherence to "Siel bleu" balance exercises in patients with Alzheimer's disease, while taking into account the disease stages.

>>NCT01042314
The purpose of this study is to find out if the plasma concentration of donepezil is changed when BMS-708163 is administered at the same time.

>>NCT02224326
In its long preclinical course, AD shows a spreading pattern of specific pathology in a uniform sequence of predictable steps including brainstem nuclei in early stages. Many of these nuclei which are early involved in AD take equally part in the afferences of the Xth cranial nerve, the Vagus nerve. A method for the functional assessment of Vagus-related nuclei in the lower brainstem is the technique of somatosensory evoked potentials of the Vagus nerve (VSEP). This method targets the accessibility of early functional changes by evoked potentials on one hand and the early affection of specific brainstem nuclei comprising Vagus afferences in the course of AD on the other hand. The method of VSEP takes advantage of the transcutaneous stimulation of the auricular branch of the Vagus nerve (ABVN) which is presumed to be the only sensory part of this nerve innervating parts of the outer meatus acoustics at the tragus. This cutaneous branch was shown to gain access to Vagus afferences via brainstem regions which are affected in the course of AD. VSEP latencies in AD were shown to be significantly longer as compared to healthy controls. Yet, if VSEP really are suited for the early detection of AD is still not known.
 Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) measures changes in cerebral oxygenation by means of near-infrared light using wavelengths of 650-850 nm. The principle of fNIRS is based on the principle that regional neuronal activation of the brain leads to an increase in metabolism and oxygenation of brain tissue in that region which is accompanied by an elevated regional cerebral blood flow. In AD, there is a growing body of literature reporting deviant fNIRS activation patterns for a variety of tasks. For example, it was shown that the fNIRS activation pattern in frontal and parietal cortex areas in subjects with AD performing the line orientation paradigm is clearly different from healthy controls. Yet, if fNIRS is suited as a means of early detection of AD is not known.
 Therefore we aimed at testing the predictive value of VSEP and fNIRS in the early detection of AD. The hypothesis to be tested within this study states that subjects developing AD or MCI within an observation period of 6 years depict longer VSEP latencies, a different fNIRS oxygenation pattern and a lower performance in neuropsychologic rating below the level of dementia at baseline than those who remain cognitively stable. In its long preclinical course, AD shows a spreading pattern of specific pathology in a uniform sequence of predictable steps including brainstem nuclei in early stages. Many of these nuclei which are early involved in AD take equally part in the afferences of the Xth cranial nerve, the Vagus nerve. A method for the functional assessment of Vagus-related nuclei in the lower brainstem is the technique of somatosensory evoked potentials of the Vagus nerve (VSEP). This method targets the accessibility of early functional changes by evoked potentials on one hand and the early affection of specific brainstem nuclei comprising Vagus afferences in the course of AD on the other hand. The method of VSEP takes advantage of the transcutaneous stimulation of the auricular branch of the Vagus nerve (ABVN) which is presumed to be the only sensory part of this nerve innervating parts of the outer meatus acoustics at the tragus. This cutaneous branch was shown to gain access to Vagus afferences via brainstem regions which are affected in the course of AD. VSEP latencies in AD were shown to be significantly longer as compared to healthy controls. Yet, if VSEP really are suited for the early detection of AD is still not known.
 Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) measures changes in cerebral oxygenation by means of near-infrared light using wavelengths of 650-850 nm. The principle of fNIRS is based on the principle that regional neuronal activation of the brain leads to an increase in metabolism and oxygenation of brain tissue in that region which is accompanied by an elevated regional cerebral blood flow. In AD, there is a growing body of literature reporting deviant fNIRS activation patterns for a variety of tasks. For example, it was shown that the fNIRS activation pattern in frontal and parietal cortex areas in subjects with AD performing the line orientation paradigm is clearly different from healthy controls. Yet, if fNIRS is suited as a means of early detection of AD is not known.
 Therefore we aimed at testing the predictive value of VSEP and fNIRS in the early detection of AD. The hypothesis to be tested within this study states that subjects developing AD or MCI within an observation period of 6 years depict longer VSEP latencies, a different fNIRS oxygenation pattern and a lower performance in neuropsychologic rating below the level of dementia at baseline than those who remain cognitively stable.

>>NCT02262975
This study is an observational study conducted prospectively under routine clinical setting for 1 year with about 700 patients diagnosed as Alzheimer's disease who will be treated by donepezil (Aricept) as monotherapy. The subjects will be recruited in the selected institutions of about 8 countries in Asia. This study is an observational study conducted prospectively under routine clinical setting for 1 year with about 700 patients diagnosed as Alzheimer's disease who will be treated by donepezil (Aricept) as monotherapy. The subjects will be recruited in the selected institutions of about 8 countries in Asia.

>>NCT01565434
Main objective: investigate whether a functional polymorphism of CR1 (length, number of binding sites in C4b C3b, erythrocyte density, rate of soluble CR1 ...) so determined genetic or acquired, is a susceptibility factor for the disease Alzheimer's.

>>NCT00095719
The purpose of this trial is to test the safety & tolerability of intramuscular aripiprazole in acutely agitated patients diagnosed with Dementia.

>>NCT00182988
The point of this research is to improve the communicative relationship between the caregiver and care receiver. It is input from the caregiver on these communicative behaviors that will inform the process of understanding how to reduce the caregiver burden that comes from this communicative relationship. The point of this research is to improve the communicative relationship between the caregiver and care receiver. It is input from the caregiver on these communicative behaviors that will inform the process of understanding how to reduce the caregiver burden that comes from this communicative relationship.

>>NCT02418806
An experimental study designed to test the effectiveness of a psychological intervention based on group therapy for the caregivers of Alzheimer's disease patients. The intervention consists of 16 sessions of a cognitive-behavioral psychological group therapy. This study aims to demonstrate that Alzheimer's patients' caregivers can decrease the feelings of burden after been involved in a group therapy.

>>NCT00938665
The proposed study is designed to evaluate the performance of the COGNISION System as a tool to assist physicians in diagnosing Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in real-world clinical settings. The design of this study is guided by two overriding factors: 1) to optimize the performance of the event related potentials (ERP) classifiers, the subjects making up the training sets must be well characterized as to their clinical diagnosis and 2) all ERP tests must be performed and reproduced in real-world clinical settings. The proposed study is designed to evaluate the performance of the COGNISION System as a tool to assist physicians in diagnosing Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in real-world clinical settings. The design of this study is guided by two overriding factors: 1) to optimize the performance of the event related potentials (ERP) classifiers, the subjects making up the training sets must be well characterized as to their clinical diagnosis and 2) all ERP tests must be performed and reproduced in real-world clinical settings.

>>NCT00042172
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of donepezil (Aricept) for the treatment of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in elderly adults. This study will also determine whether adding ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) enhances the effects of donepezil. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of donepezil (Aricept) for the treatment of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in elderly adults. This study will also determine whether adding ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) enhances the effects of donepezil.

>>NCT00574132
This is a multicenter, double-blind, placebo controlled, randomized, outpatient multiple dose study in male and female patients ages 50 to less than 89 years with mild to moderate AD. Approximately 230 study sites in the US and Canada and up to 35 sites outside of North America will be involved. Patients will be randomized to receive either bapineuzumab or placebo. Each patient's participation will last approximately 1.5 years.
 Bapineuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody, which binds to and clears beta amyloid peptide and is designed to provide antibodies to beta amyloid directly to the patient.

>>NCT01485302
Primary Objective:.
 - To assess the safety and tolerability of escalating single and multiple doses of SAR228810 in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 Secondary Objective:.
 - To evaluate the pharmacokinetic properties of SAR228810 after escalating single and multiple doses of SAR228810 in AD patients Primary Objective:.
 - To assess the safety and tolerability of escalating single and multiple doses of SAR228810 in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 Secondary Objective:.
 - To evaluate the pharmacokinetic properties of SAR228810 after escalating single and multiple doses of SAR228810 in AD patients.

>>NCT02246075
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of 2 fixed doses of EVP-6124 hydrochloride (HCl) compared to placebo for 24 weeks in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who are concurrently receiving stable treatment with memantine and currently receiving stable treatment or previously treated with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor.

>>NCT00488007
This is a 12-months randomized clinical trial that aims at studying the benefit of bilateral hearing aids in hearing impaired patients suffering from a slight to moderate stage Alzheimer disease.
 The benefit of this intervention will be studied in the cognitive, behavioural, quality of life and economic fields.
 2groups are involved in this trial: Intervention group: 12 months' treatment with active hearing aids, fitted hearing impairment Control group: 6 months' treatment with placebo hearing aids, followed with 6 months' active hearing aids, fitted hearing impairment.

>>NCT02741505
The primary purpose of this study is to explore the underlying mechanisms that link sleep to Alzheimer's disease (AD), with special focus on the clearance of metabolites in the extracellular space of the brain during sleep. Subjects will wear an actigraph for 1 week to determine regular daytime activity and sleep patterns. Subjects will then undergo partial sleep deprivation followed by 4 hours of in-lab nocturnal polysomnography (NPSG). Participants will be be asked to stay awake and active all day after the partial sleep deprivation with a new actigraphy secured by a hospital band to assure participants remain awake. They will seep inside an MRI machine for 90 minutes on the following night during their usual bedtime (established by 1 week actigraphy study.) Morphologic imaging, flow imaging and diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI) will be performed on a 3T Siemens scanner.

>>NCT00076440
ALADDIN is a research study to investigate the safety and effectiveness of leuprolide (a hormone drug) to improve the cognitive function and slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in men 65 years and older with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who reside in the community. ALADDIN is a research study to investigate the safety and effectiveness of leuprolide (a hormone drug) to improve the cognitive function and slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in men 65 years and older with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who reside in the community.

>>NCT00178568
People under stress, such as those caring for an ill family member, often have trouble with their sleep. The aim of this study is to see if reducing stress and changing a caregiver's sleep and wake patterns will improve his/her sleep. The investigators also will see whether improvements in sleep result in improved mood, health and general functioning. People under stress, such as those caring for an ill family member, often have trouble with their sleep. The aim of this study is to see if reducing stress and changing a caregiver's sleep and wake patterns will improve his/her sleep. The investigators also will see whether improvements in sleep result in improved mood, health and general functioning.

>>NCT00029120
The purpose of this study is to examine how a part of the brain called the hippocampus contributes to memory changes that occur with aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 Memory problems are the most important early symptoms of AD. The hippocampal region of the brain may be responsible for many age- and AD-related memory disorders. This study will use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans to examine the structure, chemical composition and function of the hippocampus in participants with AD, participants with mild memory problems, participants who are healthy but are at risk for AD and healthy volunteers.
 Participants in this study will undergo MRI scans of the brain. During the MRI, participants will perform memory tests to demonstrate hippocampal functioning. The purpose of this study is to examine how a part of the brain called the hippocampus contributes to memory changes that occur with aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 Memory problems are the most important early symptoms of AD. The hippocampal region of the brain may be responsible for many age- and AD-related memory disorders. This study will use magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans to examine the structure, chemical composition and function of the hippocampus in participants with AD, participants with mild memory problems, participants who are healthy but are at risk for AD and healthy volunteers.
 Participants in this study will undergo MRI scans of the brain. During the MRI, participants will perform memory tests to demonstrate hippocampal functioning.

>>NCT00309725
The objective of this trial was to investigate the effect of galantamine (an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) on heart rate and PR interval (the time it takes for the heart's electrical impulse to get from the atria to the ventricles) during the administration of rapidly increasing doses and at the end of a 2-week treatment period with 32 mg per day in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The objective of this trial was to investigate the effect of galantamine (an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) on heart rate and PR interval (the time it takes for the heart's electrical impulse to get from the atria to the ventricles) during the administration of rapidly increasing doses and at the end of a 2-week treatment period with 32 mg per day in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01703117
Cognitive aging is a major source of disability in an increasingly aging population. The paucity of effective treatments for cognitive aging disorders and most importantly in Alzheimer's disease instigates a need for further research into novel therapeutic possibilities. Alzheimer's disease is the most common neurodegenerative disorder and its prevalence steeply increases. Glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity in neuropsychiatric disorders and in particular in Alzheimer's disease has been shown to cause significant cerebral damage. Early effective therapeutic intervention in Alzheimer's disease is critical in order to prevent or at least retard neuropathological progression that will lead to widespread irreversible neuronal loss and significant cognitive dysfunction. Riluzole, a glutamate modulator agent that is a proven safe medication and has not yet been used in cognitive aging disorders, will be tested in mild Alzheimer's disease patients. Cognitive functional changes along with two established in vivo biomarkers, namely, Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) and Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F) positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) will be evaluated. Cognitive aging is a major source of disability in an increasingly aging population. The paucity of effective treatments for cognitive aging disorders and most importantly in Alzheimer's disease instigates a need for further research into novel therapeutic possibilities. Alzheimer's disease is the most common neurodegenerative disorder and its prevalence steeply increases. Glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity in neuropsychiatric disorders and in particular in Alzheimer's disease has been shown to cause significant cerebral damage. Early effective therapeutic intervention in Alzheimer's disease is critical in order to prevent or at least retard neuropathological progression that will lead to widespread irreversible neuronal loss and significant cognitive dysfunction. Riluzole, a glutamate modulator agent that is a proven safe medication and has not yet been used in cognitive aging disorders, will be tested in mild Alzheimer's disease patients. Cognitive functional changes along with two established in vivo biomarkers, namely, Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) and Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F) positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) will be evaluated.

>>NCT00009204
This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed dose study currently being conducted on two geropsychiatric units at Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic. It seeks to evaluate the short-term safety and efficacy of citalopram and perphenazine in the treatment of 112 patients suffering from behavioral disturbances associated with dementia. Findings from this research may directly lead to improved acute pharmacotherapy for psychosis and behavioral problems in patients diagnosed with dementia. Improved treatment of behavioral complications with reduced side effects would reduce excess disability in patients diagnosed with dementia, allowing them to be maintained in the community for greater periods of time. This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed dose study currently being conducted on two geropsychiatric units at Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic. It seeks to evaluate the short-term safety and efficacy of citalopram and perphenazine in the treatment of 112 patients suffering from behavioral disturbances associated with dementia. Findings from this research may directly lead to improved acute pharmacotherapy for psychosis and behavioral problems in patients diagnosed with dementia. Improved treatment of behavioral complications with reduced side effects would reduce excess disability in patients diagnosed with dementia, allowing them to be maintained in the community for greater periods of time.

>>NCT00605046
Purpose:.
 The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I AV151, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged healthy controls and Alzheimer's (AD) subjects.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I AV151 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I AV151 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I AV151 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy controls Purpose:.
 The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I AV151, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged healthy controls and Alzheimer's (AD) subjects.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I AV151 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I AV151 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I AV151 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy controls.

>>NCT00203359
It is widely believed that inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of AD. TNF has been implicated in both AD and neurological inflammation. Anti-TNF therapy is therefore surmised to be of potential benefit for treating AD. It is widely believed that inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of AD. TNF has been implicated in both AD and neurological inflammation. Anti-TNF therapy is therefore surmised to be of potential benefit for treating AD.

>>NCT00880347
The objective of the study is to define the performance of blood-based signatures for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in different patients populations including AD, non-AD dementia and non-demented controls. The objective of the study is to define the performance of blood-based signatures for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in different patients populations including AD, non-AD dementia and non-demented controls.

>>NCT01921972
This is a national multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group trial of 12 months in duration. Following a 4 week wash-out period, subjects will be randomized to one of 2 treatment groups: (1) galantamine CR 24 mg/day with dose-titration over twelve weeks[maintenance phase from week 9], (2) a combination of galantamine CR 24 mg/day plus memantine 10 mg b.i.d. with a dose titration of sixteen weeks (12 weeks for galantamine [maintenance phase from week 9], additional 4 weeks for memantine). This is a national multicenter, double-blind, randomized, parallel-group trial of 12 months in duration. Following a 4 week wash-out period, subjects will be randomized to one of 2 treatment groups: (1) galantamine CR 24 mg/day with dose-titration over twelve weeks[maintenance phase from week 9], (2) a combination of galantamine CR 24 mg/day plus memantine 10 mg b.i.d. with a dose titration of sixteen weeks (12 weeks for galantamine [maintenance phase from week 9], additional 4 weeks for memantine).

>>NCT01142258
The purpose of this study is to determine whether trazodone is effective in the treatment of sleep disorders in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine whether trazodone is effective in the treatment of sleep disorders in Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01420315
Recent studies indicate that there is a relationship between cognitive decline and vitamin D deficiency. Up to now, no study has investigated the prevalence of vitamin d deficiency in patient with Alzheimer's disease. Our aim is to investigate the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency and analysis the associated characteristics in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies indicate that there is a relationship between cognitive decline and vitamin D deficiency. Up to now, no study has investigated the prevalence of vitamin d deficiency in patient with Alzheimer's disease. Our aim is to investigate the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency and analysis the associated characteristics in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01922258
To compare the efficacy of flexible dosing of brexpiprazole with placebo in subjects with agitation associated with dementia of the Alzheimer's type To compare the efficacy of flexible dosing of brexpiprazole with placebo in subjects with agitation associated with dementia of the Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT00322153
The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of memantine compared to placebo in outpatients diagnosed with moderate-to-severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type on a concurrent acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI). The objective of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of memantine compared to placebo in outpatients diagnosed with moderate-to-severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type on a concurrent acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI).

>>NCT01072812
This trial will determine the pharmacokinetics of Posiphen in both plasma and CSF after a 10-day treatment period with Posiphen in subjects with amnestic MCI. The effects of this treatment on biomarkers will also be determined in CSF, whole blood and plasma or serum as primary pharmacodynamic (PD) objectives.

>>NCT00838084
This is a Phase 1 study in healthy subjects to evaluate the safety and tolerability of LY2811376 single doses, how the body handles the drug and the drug's effect on the body. This is a Phase 1 study in healthy subjects to evaluate the safety and tolerability of LY2811376 single doses, how the body handles the drug and the drug's effect on the body.

>>NCT00735046
A randomized, controlled, parallel-group trial to evaluate the efficacy of a cognitive behavioral therapy for patients with early dementia. A randomized, controlled, parallel-group trial to evaluate the efficacy of a cognitive behavioral therapy for patients with early dementia.

>>NCT01739348
This study consists of two parts, Part I and Part II. The purpose of Part I of the study is to assess the efficacy and safety of verubecestat (MK-8931) compared with placebo administered for 78 weeks in the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The primary study hypotheses for Part I are that at least one verubecestat dose is superior to placebo at 78 weeks of treatment with respect to change from Baseline in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog) score and that at least one verubecestat dose is superior to placebo at 78 weeks of treatment with respect to change from Baseline in Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living Inventory (ADCS-ADL) score. The first approximately 400 participants entering Part I of the study are identified as the Safety Cohort. Participants who complete Part I of the study may choose to participate in Part II, which is a long term double-blind extension to assess efficacy and safety of verubecestat administered for up to an additional 260 weeks. This study consists of two parts, Part I and Part II. The purpose of Part I of the study is to assess the efficacy and safety of verubecestat (MK-8931) compared with placebo administered for 78 weeks in the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The primary study hypotheses for Part I are that at least one verubecestat dose is superior to placebo at 78 weeks of treatment with respect to change from Baseline in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog) score and that at least one verubecestat dose is superior to placebo at 78 weeks of treatment with respect to change from Baseline in Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living Inventory (ADCS-ADL) score. The first approximately 400 participants entering Part I of the study are identified as the Safety Cohort. Participants who complete Part I of the study may choose to participate in Part II, which is a long term double-blind extension to assess efficacy and safety of verubecestat administered for up to an additional 260 weeks.

>>NCT00990613
To estimate the absorption, safety and tolerability of a dimebon transdermal solution relative to the dimebon immediate release oral formulation.

>>NCT02663531
Alzheimers disease (AD) in one of the most important causes of dementia and poses a considerable challenge in health care. Today, criteria for the diagnosis and the follow up of patients with AD mainly rely either on subjective tests or invasive methods. This limits the general applicability of the latter test for population screening and underlines the need for the identification of easily accessible tools for the identification of high-risk subjects. Because of its unique optical properties, the eye offers the possibility of the non-invasive assessment of both structural and functional alterations in neuronal tissue. As the neuro-retina is part of the brain, it does not come as a surprise that neuro-degenerative changes in the brain are accompanied by structural and possibly also functional changes in the neuro-retina and the ocular vasculature. The current study seeks to test the hypothesis that beside the known anatomical changes, also functional changes can be detected in the retina of patients with AD. For this purpose, flicker light induced hyperemia will be measured in the retina as a functional test to assess the coupling between neural activity and blood flow. Further, structural parameters such as retinal nerve fiber layer thickness and function parameters such as ocular blood flow and retinal oxygenation will be assessed and compared to age and sex matched controls.

>>NCT01723826
This Phase II, open-label extension (OLE), multicenter study will evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of crenezumab in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who have participated in and completed the treatment period of the Phase II Study ABE4869g or ABE4955g. Patients will receive crenezumab at the same dosing frequency, dose level and route of administration they were assigned to after the Week 73 visit of Study ABE4869g or ABE4955g. Patients who received placebo in Study ABE4869g or ABE4955g will receive active drug. Anticipated time on study treatment is 94 weeks.

>>NCT00428389
This study was designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of switching from donepezil to an initial dose of 5cm^2 rivastigmine patch formulation in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease (MMSE 10-24). The study included a 5-week, open-label, randomized period followed by a 20-week open-label extension period. Patients were randomized to either an immediate switch from donepezil to rivastigmine patch formulation or to a switch to rivastigmine patch formulation following a 7-day withdrawal period.

>>NCT01370954
This study will be an observational study in which patients who have been prescribed CerefolinNAC are invited to participate in surveys regarding their experiences with CerefolinNAC. CerefolinNAC is a medical food indicated for the distinct nutritional requirements of individuals under treatment for early memory loss with particular emphasis for those individuals diagnosed with or at risk for neurovascular oxidative stress and/or hyperhomocysteinemia; mild to moderate cognitive impairment with or without vitamin B12 deficiency, vascular dementia or Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to increase the understanding of the role of CerefolinNAC in managing proper neuronal function in the brain, provide patients with personalized education and support and contribute to the overall understanding of the needs and concerns of patients being treated for early memory loss. This study will be an observational study in which patients who have been prescribed CerefolinNAC are invited to participate in surveys regarding their experiences with CerefolinNAC. CerefolinNAC is a medical food indicated for the distinct nutritional requirements of individuals under treatment for early memory loss with particular emphasis for those individuals diagnosed with or at risk for neurovascular oxidative stress and/or hyperhomocysteinemia; mild to moderate cognitive impairment with or without vitamin B12 deficiency, vascular dementia or Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to increase the understanding of the role of CerefolinNAC in managing proper neuronal function in the brain, provide patients with personalized education and support and contribute to the overall understanding of the needs and concerns of patients being treated for early memory loss.

>>NCT02064920
This study aims to determine whether the Cogstate testing battery can detect improvements in cognitive function in participants with mild AD. The primary hypothesis is that the standard deviation associated with the change from baseline in average One Card Learning (OCL) repeated measurements after 12 weeks of donepezil treatment is =<0.1.

>>NCT00211159
Memory loss and difficulties with thinking associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be due to a deficiency in the brain of a fatty acid named DHA. The aim of this trial is to see if dietary supplementation with a preparation, rich in DHA, will halt cognitive impairment in AD patients.

>>NCT01492322
A polymorphism in the dopamine transporter (DAT) may determine how much dopamine is available at the synapse and this may affect the underlying reasons for relapse in smokers. This research will use Single-photon emission computed tomography SPECT and the DAT-specific ligand, TRODAT (Dopamine Transporter Density by [99mTc]), to examine the availability of DAT in smokers grouped by genotype in the sated (just having smoked) and withdrawal (4 hours without smoking) conditions. A polymorphism in the dopamine transporter (DAT) may determine how much dopamine is available at the synapse and this may affect the underlying reasons for relapse in smokers. This research will use Single-photon emission computed tomography SPECT and the DAT-specific ligand, TRODAT (Dopamine Transporter Density by [99mTc]), to examine the availability of DAT in smokers grouped by genotype in the sated (just having smoked) and withdrawal (4 hours without smoking) conditions.

>>NCT02409030
The purpose of this study is to validate a diagnostic test that combines different blood markers to identify and correctly classify patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared to individuals with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD, patient control) versus cognitively healthy individuals (healthy control). The purpose of this study is to validate a diagnostic test that combines different blood markers to identify and correctly classify patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared to individuals with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD, patient control) versus cognitively healthy individuals (healthy control).

>>NCT02406027
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of JNJ 54861911 in participants in the early Alzheimer's disease (AD [progressive brain disease that slowly destroys memory and thinking skills and eventually even the ability to carry out the simplest tasks]) spectrum that have completed a Phase 1b or Phase 2 clinical trial with JNJ-54861911, who are willing to continue their assigned treatment. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of JNJ 54861911 in participants in the early Alzheimer's disease (AD [progressive brain disease that slowly destroys memory and thinking skills and eventually even the ability to carry out the simplest tasks]) spectrum that have completed a Phase 1b or Phase 2 clinical trial with JNJ-54861911, who are willing to continue their assigned treatment.

>>NCT01773915
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder afflicting the elderly. Currently, some biochemical tests performed on Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) samples have demonstrated to discriminate to some extend between AD and non-AD individuals based on the levels of tau, phospho-tau or A42. We aim to investigate newly identified proteins whose levels increase during the Braak Stages of AD that are accessible in other body fluids such as blood, urine or saliva. The detection of these proteins would allow performing simple tests in case its levels were confirmed to be associated with the AD pathology. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder afflicting the elderly. Currently, some biochemical tests performed on Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) samples have demonstrated to discriminate to some extend between AD and non-AD individuals based on the levels of tau, phospho-tau or A42. We aim to investigate newly identified proteins whose levels increase during the Braak Stages of AD that are accessible in other body fluids such as blood, urine or saliva. The detection of these proteins would allow performing simple tests in case its levels were confirmed to be associated with the AD pathology.

>>NCT00711321
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term tolerability and -safety of AFFITOPE AD02 applied during AFFiRiS 002.

>>NCT02062099
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in elderly subjects. AD is characterized by brain lesions like extracellular deposits of -amylod proteins in senile plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles of hyper-phosphorylated tau protein, both of which are associated with the loss of neurons. The development of disease biomarkers for AD (Tau, PhTau and amyloid dosing in the cerebrospinal fluid, brain MRI, amyloid PET imaging and fluorodeoxyglucose PET imaging) to identify the pathophysiological processes underlying cognitive impairment biomarkers, have been incorporated into revised diagnosis guidelines.
 Post-mortem human AD and AD animal model studies have reported inflammatory processes also implicated in the neuropathology of AD and upregulated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
 In vivo visualization of microglial activation has become possible with the development of molecular imaging ligands (tracers) for use with positron emission tomography (PET). The translocator protein (TSPO) formerly known as the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), a receptor located in the outer membrane of mitochondria, is upregulated during neuroinflammation. So targeting TSPO with radiolabeled ligands for PET is considered as an attractive biomarker for neuroinflammation.
 The main aim of this pilot study is to quantify neuroinflammation, in terms of fixation and distribution of [18F] DPA-714(Binding Potential BP) and to study its relationship with amyloid load, measured with in [18F]AV-45 (Standard Uptake Values ratio) in cognitive decline. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in elderly subjects. AD is characterized by brain lesions like extracellular deposits of -amylod proteins in senile plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles of hyper-phosphorylated tau protein, both of which are associated with the loss of neurons. The development of disease biomarkers for AD (Tau, PhTau and amyloid dosing in the cerebrospinal fluid, brain MRI, amyloid PET imaging and fluorodeoxyglucose PET imaging) to identify the pathophysiological processes underlying cognitive impairment biomarkers, have been incorporated into revised diagnosis guidelines.
 Post-mortem human AD and AD animal model studies have reported inflammatory processes also implicated in the neuropathology of AD and upregulated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines.
 In vivo visualization of microglial activation has become possible with the development of molecular imaging ligands (tracers) for use with positron emission tomography (PET). The translocator protein (TSPO) formerly known as the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), a receptor located in the outer membrane of mitochondria, is upregulated during neuroinflammation. So targeting TSPO with radiolabeled ligands for PET is considered as an attractive biomarker for neuroinflammation.
 The main aim of this pilot study is to quantify neuroinflammation, in terms of fixation and distribution of [18F] DPA-714(Binding Potential BP) and to study its relationship with amyloid load, measured with in [18F]AV-45 (Standard Uptake Values ratio) in cognitive decline.

>>NCT01371214
The primary goal of this study is to perform a 36-week pilot study with a cross-over design to study the safety and efficacy of a novel integrative exercise program called PLI (Preventing Loss of Independence through Exercise). PLI integrates elements of Eastern and Western exercise traditions and is specifically designed to target the muscles and movements needed to help individuals with mild-to-moderate dementia maintain physical function and independence.

>>NCT00209456
The study is designed to determine the diagnostic efficacy of the visual assessment of SPECT scans in differentiating between probable dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) and non-DLB dementia subjects determined by the clinical diagnosis of an independent expert consensus panel used as the standard of truth. The study is designed to determine the diagnostic efficacy of the visual assessment of SPECT scans in differentiating between probable dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) and non-DLB dementia subjects determined by the clinical diagnosis of an independent expert consensus panel used as the standard of truth.

>>NCT02860065
The purpose of this study is to compare the effect of low and high dose CPC-201 on brain function including cerebral acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity measured by positron emission tomography (PET). The purpose of this study is to compare the effect of low and high dose CPC-201 on brain function including cerebral acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity measured by positron emission tomography (PET).

>>NCT01253122
A randomised four way crossover design in which each subject will receive two dose levels of TRx-0037 and two doses of TRx-0014 over approximately a four week period in randomised order.

>>NCT01066481
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of PF-01913539 in the treatment of patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease. It is a 6-month study enrolling 651 patients in Japan, Hong Kong, Korea and Republic of China. All patients completing the 6-month study will be eligible to receive PF-01913539 in an open-label extension trial (B1451031).

>>NCT00428090
Rosiglitazone (RSG) has been tested and is approved as a treatment for type II diabetes mellitus, a disease that occurs when the body ineffectively uses glucose. RSG XR, the investigational drug, is an extended-release form of RSG. This study tests whether RSG XR safely provides benefit to people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). RSG XR is a new approach to AD therapy and this study tests whether one's genes alter the effectiveness of RSG XR. Glucose is used by cells to make energy that they need to live. Changes in the ability of cells to use of glucose can lead to diseases like diabetes. Glucose levels may be lower in the brains of AD patients and their brain cells may also use glucose less well than in unaffected people. The proper function of brain cells may be critical to memory and thought. If brain cells use glucose poorly, this might impact AD. Drugs that help brain cells properly use glucose may help a person maintain normal memory and thinking. Data suggesting that RSG may help AD patients was first seen in a small study at the Univ. of Washington and then from a larger international GSK study. In the first study, those receiving RSG once daily for 6 months scored better on 3 tests of memory and thought than those who did not receive RSG. In the GSK study, those that benefited most from therapy with RSG XR had a specific genetic pattern. They lacked the gene that caused them to produce apolipoprotein E e4 (APOE e4). Subjects who have the APOE e4 gene may have two copies, one from each parent or they may have only one APOE e4 gene meaning that they inherited either the APOE e2 or APOE e3 version of the gene from one parent. Subjects with one copy of the APOE e4 gene remained fairly stable while those with two copies of APOE e4 continued to worsen during the 6-month treatment. This study will directly test the effect of RSG XR on people who either have or lack the APOE e4 gene. Rosiglitazone (RSG) has been tested and is approved as a treatment for type II diabetes mellitus, a disease that occurs when the body ineffectively uses glucose. RSG XR, the investigational drug, is an extended-release form of RSG. This study tests whether RSG XR safely provides benefit to people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). RSG XR is a new approach to AD therapy and this study tests whether one's genes alter the effectiveness of RSG XR. Glucose is used by cells to make energy that they need to live. Changes in the ability of cells to use of glucose can lead to diseases like diabetes. Glucose levels may be lower in the brains of AD patients and their brain cells may also use glucose less well than in unaffected people. The proper function of brain cells may be critical to memory and thought. If brain cells use glucose poorly, this might impact AD. Drugs that help brain cells properly use glucose may help a person maintain normal memory and thinking. Data suggesting that RSG may help AD patients was first seen in a small study at the Univ. of Washington and then from a larger international GSK study. In the first study, those receiving RSG once daily for 6 months scored better on 3 tests of memory and thought than those who did not receive RSG. In the GSK study, those that benefited most from therapy with RSG XR had a specific genetic pattern. They lacked the gene that caused them to produce apolipoprotein E e4 (APOE e4). Subjects who have the APOE e4 gene may have two copies, one from each parent or they may have only one APOE e4 gene meaning that they inherited either the APOE e2 or APOE e3 version of the gene from one parent. Subjects with one copy of the APOE e4 gene remained fairly stable while those with two copies of APOE e4 continued to worsen during the 6-month treatment. This study will directly test the effect of RSG XR on people who either have or lack the APOE e4 gene.

>>NCT00083421
The purpose of this study is to establish the presence of an effect of treatment with ONO-2506PO in patients with Alzheimer's Disease, based upon cognitive and global scales.

>>NCT00948909
This is a efficacy and safety study evaluating new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease. This is a efficacy and safety study evaluating new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00001933
Some of the thinking difficulties of Alzheimer's patients may be due to a deficiency in a brain chemical called acetylcholine, which helps transmit messages between nerve cells. Nefiracetam is a new drug that stimulates acetylcholine. This study will test whether Nefiracetam can safely improve memory, thinking and activities of daily living in patients with mild to moderate intellectual impairment due to Alzheimer's disease.
 Patients in the study must have a caregiver and designated representative. Candidates will be given a medical history and physical examination that includes a complete neurologic and neuropsychologic evaluation, blood tests and an electrocardiogram. A chest X ray and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) test will be done on patients who have not had these tests within the previous two years. During the 20-week study, each patient will take three pills twice a day for twenty weeks of either Nefiracetame or placebo (sugar pill). Neither the patients nor the doctors will know which patients are getting the drug and which are getting the placebo. Blood and urine tests will be done frequently throughout the study. Patients will be asked to have a spinal tap (on a voluntary basis) to measure the levels of drug in the spinal fluid and a PET scan (a brain imaging test).
 At the end of the study, patients who feel they are doing well with no side effects from the drug (or placebo) may be given the option of continuing treatment for another seven months.
 Animal studies showed that Nefiracetam improved learning impairment and memory in rats with dementia. In a small study of humans, about one-fourth of patients who were given a low dose of the drug had improved intellectual function and about one-half who received a higher dose improved. Some of the thinking difficulties of Alzheimer's patients may be due to a deficiency in a brain chemical called acetylcholine, which helps transmit messages between nerve cells. Nefiracetam is a new drug that stimulates acetylcholine. This study will test whether Nefiracetam can safely improve memory, thinking and activities of daily living in patients with mild to moderate intellectual impairment due to Alzheimer's disease.
 Patients in the study must have a caregiver and designated representative. Candidates will be given a medical history and physical examination that includes a complete neurologic and neuropsychologic evaluation, blood tests and an electrocardiogram. A chest X ray and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) test will be done on patients who have not had these tests within the previous two years. During the 20-week study, each patient will take three pills twice a day for twenty weeks of either Nefiracetame or placebo (sugar pill). Neither the patients nor the doctors will know which patients are getting the drug and which are getting the placebo. Blood and urine tests will be done frequently throughout the study. Patients will be asked to have a spinal tap (on a voluntary basis) to measure the levels of drug in the spinal fluid and a PET scan (a brain imaging test).
 At the end of the study, patients who feel they are doing well with no side effects from the drug (or placebo) may be given the option of continuing treatment for another seven months.
 Animal studies showed that Nefiracetam improved learning impairment and memory in rats with dementia. In a small study of humans, about one-fourth of patients who were given a low dose of the drug had improved intellectual function and about one-half who received a higher dose improved.

>>NCT02742597
The aim of Patient-Centred Innovations for Persons With Multimorbidity (PACE in MM) study is to reorient the health care system from a single disease focus to a multimorbidity focus; centre on not only disease but also the patient in context; and realign the health care system from separate silos to coordinated collaborations in care. PACE in MM will propose multifaceted innovations in Chronic Disease Prevention and Management (CDPM) that will be grounded in current realities (i.e. Chronic Care Models including Self-Management Programs), that are linked to Primary Care (PC) reform efforts. The study will build on this firm foundation, will design and test promising innovations and will achieve transformation by creating structures to sustain relationships among researchers, decision-makers, practitioners and patients. The Team will conduct inter-jurisdictional comparisons and is mainly a Quebec (QC) - Ontario (ON) collaboration with participation from 4 other provinces: British Columbia (BC); Manitoba (MB); Nova Scotia (NS); and New Brunswick (NB). The Team's objectives are: 1) to identify factors responsible for success or failure of current CDPM programs linked to the PC reform, by conducting a realist synthesis of their quantitative and qualitative evaluations; 2) to transform consenting CDPM programs identified in Objective 1, by aligning them to promising interventions on patient-centred care for multimorbidity patients and to test these new innovations' in at least two jurisdictions and compare among jurisdictions; and 3) to foster the scaling-up of innovations informed by Objective 1 and tested/proven in Objective 2 and to conduct research on different approaches to scaling-up. This registration for Clinical Trials only pertains to Objective 2 of the study. The aim of Patient-Centred Innovations for Persons With Multimorbidity (PACE in MM) study is to reorient the health care system from a single disease focus to a multimorbidity focus; centre on not only disease but also the patient in context; and realign the health care system from separate silos to coordinated collaborations in care. PACE in MM will propose multifaceted innovations in Chronic Disease Prevention and Management (CDPM) that will be grounded in current realities (i.e. Chronic Care Models including Self-Management Programs), that are linked to Primary Care (PC) reform efforts. The study will build on this firm foundation, will design and test promising innovations and will achieve transformation by creating structures to sustain relationships among researchers, decision-makers, practitioners and patients. The Team will conduct inter-jurisdictional comparisons and is mainly a Quebec (QC) - Ontario (ON) collaboration with participation from 4 other provinces: British Columbia (BC); Manitoba (MB); Nova Scotia (NS); and New Brunswick (NB). The Team's objectives are: 1) to identify factors responsible for success or failure of current CDPM programs linked to the PC reform, by conducting a realist synthesis of their quantitative and qualitative evaluations; 2) to transform consenting CDPM programs identified in Objective 1, by aligning them to promising interventions on patient-centred care for multimorbidity patients and to test these new innovations' in at least two jurisdictions and compare among jurisdictions; and 3) to foster the scaling-up of innovations informed by Objective 1 and tested/proven in Objective 2 and to conduct research on different approaches to scaling-up. This registration for Clinical Trials only pertains to Objective 2 of the study.

>>NCT00814502
The purpose of this research study is to compare the effectiveness of Zolpidem CR to that of placebo in improving sleep efficiency in people with dementia admitted to the hospital because of their symptoms. You can participate in this study if you have dementia of the Alzheimer's type or vascular dementia. This study involves placebo; a placebo is a tablet that looks exactly like Zolpidem CR, the study drug but contains no active study drug. We will use placebos to see if the study results are due to the study drug or due to other reasons. Zolpidem CR is also called Ambien CR and is widely available by prescription. Zolpidem CR is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the short-term treatment of insomnia (trouble falling or staying asleep). The purpose of this research study is to compare the effectiveness of Zolpidem CR to that of placebo in improving sleep efficiency in people with dementia admitted to the hospital because of their symptoms. You can participate in this study if you have dementia of the Alzheimer's type or vascular dementia. This study involves placebo; a placebo is a tablet that looks exactly like Zolpidem CR, the study drug but contains no active study drug. We will use placebos to see if the study results are due to the study drug or due to other reasons. Zolpidem CR is also called Ambien CR and is widely available by prescription. Zolpidem CR is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the short-term treatment of insomnia (trouble falling or staying asleep).

>>NCT01931644
At Sanguine, we consider ourselves the bridge between patients and researchers striving to find new treatments and diagnostics for numerous medical conditions. We collect biospecimens like blood for medical researchers. Donate from your home, track your sample and help advance medical research. At Sanguine, we consider ourselves the bridge between patients and researchers striving to find new treatments and diagnostics for numerous medical conditions. We collect biospecimens like blood for medical researchers. Donate from your home, track your sample and help advance medical research.

>>NCT02087865
This 24-week study will examine the sensitivity of functional MRI to detect brain changes caused by donepezil HCL (a cholinesterase inhibitor) in healthy older adults at genetic risk for Alzheimer's Disease. Participants with a family history of Alzheimer's Disease will be eligible for this study. Participants without a family history of AD will also be enrolled to serve as a control group.

>>NCT01951118
Olfactory identification deficits occur in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), are associated with disease severity, predict conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD and are associated with healthy elderly subjects developing MCI. Odor (olfactory) identification deficits may reflect degeneration of cholinergic inputs to the olfactory bulb and other olfactory brain regions. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (ACheI) like donepezil show modest effects in improving cognition but can be associated with adverse effects and increased burden and costs because of the need for prolonged, often lifelong, treatment. Converging findings on odor identification test performance (UPSIT, scratch and sniff 40-item test) from four pilot studies, including two of our own, suggest that acute change in the UPSIT in response to an anticholinergic challenge (atropine nasal spray), incremental change over 8 weeks and even the baseline UPSIT score by itself, may predict cognitive improvement with ACheI treatment in MCI and AD. If change in odor identification deficits can help to identify which patients should receive ACheI treatment, this simple inexpensive approach will advance the goal of improving personalized treatment, improve selection and monitoring of patients for ACheI treatment, reduce needless ACheI exposure with risk of side effects and decrease health care costs. Olfactory identification deficits occur in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), are associated with disease severity, predict conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD and are associated with healthy elderly subjects developing MCI. Odor (olfactory) identification deficits may reflect degeneration of cholinergic inputs to the olfactory bulb and other olfactory brain regions. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (ACheI) like donepezil show modest effects in improving cognition but can be associated with adverse effects and increased burden and costs because of the need for prolonged, often lifelong, treatment. Converging findings on odor identification test performance (UPSIT, scratch and sniff 40-item test) from four pilot studies, including two of our own, suggest that acute change in the UPSIT in response to an anticholinergic challenge (atropine nasal spray), incremental change over 8 weeks and even the baseline UPSIT score by itself, may predict cognitive improvement with ACheI treatment in MCI and AD. If change in odor identification deficits can help to identify which patients should receive ACheI treatment, this simple inexpensive approach will advance the goal of improving personalized treatment, improve selection and monitoring of patients for ACheI treatment, reduce needless ACheI exposure with risk of side effects and decrease health care costs.

>>NCT02492529
Unrandomized, unblinded, monocentric comparative Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging study. Unrandomized, unblinded, monocentric comparative Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging study.

>>NCT00205179
The purpose of this pilot study is to evaluate the potential effects of soy isoflavone supplements on cognitive function for men and women with Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Preliminary studies evaluating the effects of soy supplements on memory in cognitively healthy older adults have yielded promising results that are now being evaluated in patients with AD. It is hypothesized that isoflavone supplements will ameliorate cognitive declines for older adults diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, when compared to subjects on placebo.

>>NCT01568086
This is a phase Ib follow-up study to evaluate long-term safety and tolerability of immunization with AFFITOPE AD03 applied during AFFiRiS 005A.

>>NCT02664571
The main objective of this study is to compare the distribution of Florbetaben (NEURACEQ: FBB) in the brain in amyloid cerebral angiopathy (ACA) manifested by isolated hemosiderosis in non-demented patients with that observed in healthy subjects, patients with ACA and with lobar hematoma(s) and patients with Alzheimer's dementia without MRI signs in favor of ACA. The main objective of this study is to compare the distribution of Florbetaben (NEURACEQ: FBB) in the brain in amyloid cerebral angiopathy (ACA) manifested by isolated hemosiderosis in non-demented patients with that observed in healthy subjects, patients with ACA and with lobar hematoma(s) and patients with Alzheimer's dementia without MRI signs in favor of ACA.

>>NCT00479297
To assess the safety and tolerability of ascending single oral doses of SAM-531, an investigational drug, in healthy Japanese male subjects. Secondary: To obtain preliminary pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profiles of SAM-531 in healthy Japanese male subjects.

>>NCT01078636
The purpose of this study is to build upon the information obtained in the original Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI1), to examine how brain imaging technology can be used with other tests to measure the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). ADNI-GO seeks to define and characterize the mildest symptomatic phase of AD, referred to in this study as early amnestic MCI (EMCI). This information will aid in the early detection of AD and in measuring the effectiveness of treatments in future clinical trials. The purpose of this study is to build upon the information obtained in the original Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI1), to examine how brain imaging technology can be used with other tests to measure the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). ADNI-GO seeks to define and characterize the mildest symptomatic phase of AD, referred to in this study as early amnestic MCI (EMCI). This information will aid in the early detection of AD and in measuring the effectiveness of treatments in future clinical trials.

>>NCT02180269
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK, study of the way a drug enters and leaves the blood and tissues over time) of single-ascending oral doses of JNJ-54861911 in healthy Japanese male participants. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK, study of the way a drug enters and leaves the blood and tissues over time) of single-ascending oral doses of JNJ-54861911 in healthy Japanese male participants.

>>NCT01547169
The study will examine the effects of intranasally administered long-acting insulin detemir on cognition in persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). The rationale for these studies is derived from growing evidence that insulin contributes to multiple brain functions and that insulin dysregulation can contribute to AD pathogenesis. Thus, therapies aimed at restoring normal insulin signaling in the CNS may have beneficial effects on brain function. Intranasal administration of insulin increases insulin signaling in brain without raising peripheral levels and causing hypoglycemia. Insulin detemir is an insulin analogue that may have better action in brain than other insulin formulations because of its albumin binding properties. The investigators will test the therapeutic effects of intranasally-administered insulin detemir in a dose-finding study in which participants will receive one of two doses of insulin detemir or placebo for a three week period. The investigators will test the hypothesis that either dose will improve memory and daily functioning in persons with AD/aMCI compared with placebo. The study will examine the effects of intranasally administered long-acting insulin detemir on cognition in persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). The rationale for these studies is derived from growing evidence that insulin contributes to multiple brain functions and that insulin dysregulation can contribute to AD pathogenesis. Thus, therapies aimed at restoring normal insulin signaling in the CNS may have beneficial effects on brain function. Intranasal administration of insulin increases insulin signaling in brain without raising peripheral levels and causing hypoglycemia. Insulin detemir is an insulin analogue that may have better action in brain than other insulin formulations because of its albumin binding properties. The investigators will test the therapeutic effects of intranasally-administered insulin detemir in a dose-finding study in which participants will receive one of two doses of insulin detemir or placebo for a three week period. The investigators will test the hypothesis that either dose will improve memory and daily functioning in persons with AD/aMCI compared with placebo.

>>NCT00034567
This project will focus on the development and testing of efficient, cost effective measures that are specifically designed for use in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) primary prevention trials. This project will focus on the development and testing of efficient, cost effective measures that are specifically designed for use in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) primary prevention trials.

>>NCT02844855
Memory for action is especially important in everyday life although current literature is not very abundant. The enactment effect (i.e. better memory for performed actions than for verbally encoded sentences) is usually described as a robust effect in aging and can be found in many diseases. Although the enactment effect has been studied for three decades, there is still no consensus on how it enhances memory. Therefore, in order to gain additional insight into the representational basis of the enactment effect, in the present study, the investigators propose to test neurological patients. The investigators suggested that memory for action should be better than memory for verbally encoded information in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.
 If patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) have no cognitive assessment during the last 6 months, then they will realize different tests: MMSE (1), HAD (2), a cognitive assessment (3); (4); BREF (5); Assessment of apraxia, (6). Controls will perform the same tests to verify that they have no cognitive impairment. Then, two experimental conditions will be presented in all patients and controls: a first in which participants will have to name drawings (verbal learning) and a second in which they will have to reproduce an action associated with drawings (action learning). Immediately after this learning phase, a recognition task will be available and therefore participants will have to recognize drawings that had been presented previously. The main criteria used in the statistical analysis will be the correct recognition score. Memory for action is especially important in everyday life although current literature is not very abundant. The enactment effect (i.e. better memory for performed actions than for verbally encoded sentences) is usually described as a robust effect in aging and can be found in many diseases. Although the enactment effect has been studied for three decades, there is still no consensus on how it enhances memory. Therefore, in order to gain additional insight into the representational basis of the enactment effect, in the present study, the investigators propose to test neurological patients. The investigators suggested that memory for action should be better than memory for verbally encoded information in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease.
 If patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) have no cognitive assessment during the last 6 months, then they will realize different tests: MMSE (1), HAD (2), a cognitive assessment (3); (4); BREF (5); Assessment of apraxia, (6). Controls will perform the same tests to verify that they have no cognitive impairment. Then, two experimental conditions will be presented in all patients and controls: a first in which participants will have to name drawings (verbal learning) and a second in which they will have to reproduce an action associated with drawings (action learning). Immediately after this learning phase, a recognition task will be available and therefore participants will have to recognize drawings that had been presented previously. The main criteria used in the statistical analysis will be the correct recognition score.

>>NCT02353598
This randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-arm study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of at least two dose levels of intravenous (IV) crenezumab in 24-72 participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer disease (AD) (mini-mental state examination [MMSE] 18 to 28 points, inclusive). An optional open-label extension (OLE) will be offered after the completion of initial double-blind stage.

>>NCT01323322
The Healthy Aging in Neighborhoods of Diversity across the Life Span study (HANDLS) is a multidisciplinary, community-based, prospective longitudinal epidemiologic study examining the influences of race and socioeconomic status (SES) on the development of age-related health disparities among socioeconomically diverse African Americans and whites in Baltimore. This study investigates whether health disparities develop or persist due to differences in SES, differences in race or their interaction. This study is unique because it will assess over a 20-year period physical parameters as well as evaluate genetic, biologic, demographic and psychosocial parameters of African American and white participants in higher and lower SES. It also employs novel research tools, mobile medical research vehicles, in hopes of improving participation rates and retention among non-traditional research participants. The domains of the HANDLS study include: nutrition, cognition, biologic biomarkers, body composition and bone quality, physical function and performance, sociodemographics, psychosocial, neighborhood environment and cardiovascular disease. Utilizing data from these study domains will facilitate understand the driving factors behind persistent black-white health disparities in overall longevity, cardiovascular disease and cognitive decline.
 HANDLS Wave 1, the initial recruitment and examination phase that began in August 2004, is complete. The current protocol outlines the revisit waves of this study HANDLS Wave, 2 entitled, The Association of Personality and Socioeconomic status with Health Status An Interim Follow-up Study, which began in June 2006 under a separate protocol is designed as a telephone interview to occur approximately 18 months after the first visit to the mobile Medical Research Vehicles (MRVs). Wave 2 provides interim contact with study participants and important interim information regarding their health. The next visit HANDLS Wave 3 will consist of the second visit to the mobile Medical Research Vehicles (MRVs) for a health examination to occur at least 3 years after the first, a telephone interview to include the dietary interview and questionnaires and for a random sample of those who participate in the revisit a direct measurement of renal function and a brain scan study using M RI to examine the structure of the brain. The Healthy Aging in Neighborhoods of Diversity across the Life Span study (HANDLS) is a multidisciplinary, community-based, prospective longitudinal epidemiologic study examining the influences of race and socioeconomic status (SES) on the development of age-related health disparities among socioeconomically diverse African Americans and whites in Baltimore. This study investigates whether health disparities develop or persist due to differences in SES, differences in race or their interaction. This study is unique because it will assess over a 20-year period physical parameters as well as evaluate genetic, biologic, demographic and psychosocial parameters of African American and white participants in higher and lower SES. It also employs novel research tools, mobile medical research vehicles, in hopes of improving participation rates and retention among non-traditional research participants. The domains of the HANDLS study include: nutrition, cognition, biologic biomarkers, body composition and bone quality, physical function and performance, sociodemographics, psychosocial, neighborhood environment and cardiovascular disease. Utilizing data from these study domains will facilitate understand the driving factors behind persistent black-white health disparities in overall longevity, cardiovascular disease and cognitive decline.
 HANDLS Wave 1, the initial recruitment and examination phase that began in August 2004, is complete. The current protocol outlines the revisit waves of this study HANDLS Wave, 2 entitled, The Association of Personality and Socioeconomic status with Health Status An Interim Follow-up Study, which began in June 2006 under a separate protocol is designed as a telephone interview to occur approximately 18 months after the first visit to the mobile Medical Research Vehicles (MRVs). Wave 2 provides interim contact with study participants and important interim information regarding their health. The next visit HANDLS Wave 3 will consist of the second visit to the mobile Medical Research Vehicles (MRVs) for a health examination to occur at least 3 years after the first, a telephone interview to include the dietary interview and questionnaires and for a random sample of those who participate in the revisit a direct measurement of renal function and a brain scan study using M RI to examine the structure of the brain.

>>NCT02271685
Participants will be assigned to complete computerized estimation tasks for which there is a component of accuracy, such as estimating the duration of sounds. Participants will be told that the task is used as an early diagnostic tool to detect those at risk for a medical condition (e.g., Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease). Instructions will be given to participants telling them that accuracy on the task is associated with the disease, whereas those who are not at risk of the disease tend to either overestimate or underestimate the duration of the sounds. The investigators examine whether such instructions about the purpose and diagnosticity of the tasks biases participants' responses to the tasks, leading them to purposefully be more inaccurate in their estimates. Participants will be assigned to complete computerized estimation tasks for which there is a component of accuracy, such as estimating the duration of sounds. Participants will be told that the task is used as an early diagnostic tool to detect those at risk for a medical condition (e.g., Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease). Instructions will be given to participants telling them that accuracy on the task is associated with the disease, whereas those who are not at risk of the disease tend to either overestimate or underestimate the duration of the sounds. The investigators examine whether such instructions about the purpose and diagnosticity of the tasks biases participants' responses to the tasks, leading them to purposefully be more inaccurate in their estimates.

>>NCT01089582
This study assessed the Hr QoL (Health related Quality of life) of subjects with mild to moderate AD, who received ARICEPT under usual clinical practice. This study assessed the Hr QoL (Health related Quality of life) of subjects with mild to moderate AD, who received ARICEPT under usual clinical practice.

>>NCT01553929
Regular physical activity is now recognized as a key element of good physical and mental health and this all ages.
 MAIN GOAL : Evaluate the effectiveness of physical training associated with a cognitive training in improving the cognitive function of patients diagnosed with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).
 DESIGN : Controlled randomized monocentric and prospective study with clinical benefit for the patient with three groups : one physical training and cognitive exercise group, one physical training without cognitive exercise group and one control group.
 In agreement with the literature on the effects of physiological stress on cognitive performance, the investigators expect the best cognitive test scores in groups with exercise training compared with controls (35% versus 80% error) and better scores on the MMSE, IALD, depression Scale, Index of Pittsburg sleep quality and quality of Life Questionnaire. Furthermore the investigators hypothesize that this positive effect is greater in the physical training and cognitive exercise group compared with the physical training group only.

>>NCT01255046
The objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of STA-1 vs placebo as an add-on treatment to donepezil in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT00814346
The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of EGb761, in comparison to placebo, on cerebral glucose metabolism, in three groups of elderly patients: newly diagnosed mild Alzheimer's disease (AD), memory complaint patients with cognitive impairment (MC) and memory complaint patients cognitively normal (CNE). The first phase includes four weeks treatment with EGb761 for all groups, with change in brain glucose metabolism at month 1 using 18 FDG-PET, as primary endpoint which will be followed by an open 17 months follow-up (FU) period with EGb761 treatment in MC and CNE patients.

>>NCT00860275
The purpose of the study is to determine if the concomitant administration of either ketoconazole or fluconazole with BMS-708163 will affect the PK of BMS-708163 and to assess safety and tolerability of BMS-708163.

>>NCT01561430
The purpose of this Phase 2 study is to evaluate how the body handles the drug and the drug's effect on the body of participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or mild AD who test positive for amyloid plaque.

>>NCT01636596
The objectives of this project are to examine amyloid burden and cognition in a group of subjects diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) before and after a six month course of insulin delivered weekly in a controlled pulsatile intravenous fashion in a clinical setting. The investigators central hypothesis is straightforward: The investigators predict that controlled pulsed IV infusion of insulin will improve cognition in patients with AD and that this improvement will be correlated with a decrease in amyloid burden in these patients. The objectives of this project are to examine amyloid burden and cognition in a group of subjects diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) before and after a six month course of insulin delivered weekly in a controlled pulsatile intravenous fashion in a clinical setting. The investigators central hypothesis is straightforward: The investigators predict that controlled pulsed IV infusion of insulin will improve cognition in patients with AD and that this improvement will be correlated with a decrease in amyloid burden in these patients.

>>NCT00753662
The primary objective of this trial is to assess the ability of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation with H2 coil to prefrontal and parieto-temporal cortex to improve cognitive performance in patients with Alzheimer's disease which received drug treatment. This study is a single-center, double-blind 4 months duration trial. The primary objective of this trial is to assess the ability of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation with H2 coil to prefrontal and parieto-temporal cortex to improve cognitive performance in patients with Alzheimer's disease which received drug treatment. This study is a single-center, double-blind 4 months duration trial.

>>NCT02703636
To evaluate the efficacy of rivastigmine patch with 1-step titration on cognitive function measured as change from baseline to week 24 in the total score of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) in mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients who failed to benefit from other cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs).

>>NCT00959803
This study is designed to investigate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of PF-04447943 after single and multiple-dose administration to healthy young adult and elderly Japanese subjects, respectively.

>>NCT00833274
Apathy, defined as a lack of motivation in behaviour, cognition and affect, is common in neurodegenerative diseases. Specific scales are available for the evaluation of apathy but it lacks objective evaluation methods.
 The aim of this study is to evaluate the changes in reaction time task according to the presence or absence of reward stimulation and to assess the relation between these performances and apathy scales. Apathy, defined as a lack of motivation in behaviour, cognition and affect, is common in neurodegenerative diseases. Specific scales are available for the evaluation of apathy but it lacks objective evaluation methods.
 The aim of this study is to evaluate the changes in reaction time task according to the presence or absence of reward stimulation and to assess the relation between these performances and apathy scales.

>>NCT02213458
This is a 3 year clinical trial evaluating the benefits of a program that supports model care for patients with dementia and their family caregivers. Subjects will be recruited from several sites in San Francisco. Subjects determined to be eligible will be consented and randomized into one of two groups. Two thirds of patients will be enrolled into Navigated Care that provides them with assistance in meeting important benchmarks in their care, for example completion of legal and financial planning and strategies for minimizing caregiver burden. One third of patients will be enrolled to a control group, entitled Survey of Care. Outcomes include quality of life, health care utilization, caregiver burden and satisfaction with care.

>>NCT00040443
Glutamate is fundamentally involved in learning and memory. Memory loss associated with mild cognitive impairment may be due to loss of glutamate receptors in the aging brain. There is evidence CX516 enhances brain activity by specifically targeting remaining glutamate receptors in the affected portions of the brain. This study will test the safety and efficacy of CX516 in the symptomatic treatment of participants with mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT02389413
The aim of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of PQ912 in subjects with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimers Disease (AD) or mild dementia due to AD.

>>NCT02573740
This is a Phase 1, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multiple dose study of ABT-957 in participants with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) due to AD.

>>NCT02646982
This study is intended to investigate the effect of candesartan, a blood pressure medication, on cognitive function and thinking skills in those who have early or mild memory difficulties, also called mild cognitive impairment or MCI. This study is intended to investigate the effect of candesartan, a blood pressure medication, on cognitive function and thinking skills in those who have early or mild memory difficulties, also called mild cognitive impairment or MCI.

>>NCT00966966
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of multiple doses of Gemfibrozil on the plasma concentration of a single dose of SAM-531 in healthy young adult subjects and to assess the safety and tolerability of co-administration of SAM-531 and Gemfibrozil.

>>NCT01417130
The Alzheimer's Disease Anti-inflammatory Prevention Trial - Follow-up Study (ADAPT-FS) will continue observations of the declared primary outcomes of the Alzheimer's Disease Anti-inflammatory Prevention Trial (ADAPT) in the cohort previously established for that trial. The Alzheimer's Disease Anti-inflammatory Prevention Trial - Follow-up Study (ADAPT-FS) will continue observations of the declared primary outcomes of the Alzheimer's Disease Anti-inflammatory Prevention Trial (ADAPT) in the cohort previously established for that trial.

>>NCT02423200
This study will assess the effects of VX-745 on markers of disease in the central nervous system of patients with MCI due to AD or with mild AD. The study will also evaluate the safety and tolerability of VX-745 in these patients during 6 weeks of dosing, as well as the plasma and cerebrospinal fluid concentrations of VX-745 during dosing.

>>NCT00094913
The purpose of this study is to identify the earliest predictors of memory and brain deterioration in pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease using positron emission tomography (PET) to monitor brain glucose metabolism. The purpose of this study is to identify the earliest predictors of memory and brain deterioration in pre-clinical Alzheimer's disease using positron emission tomography (PET) to monitor brain glucose metabolism.

>>NCT00939822
The purpose of the research is to see how simvastatin affects a substance in the body called beta-amyloid. Beta-amyloid is found in the brain and in the liquid around the brain and spinal cord. High amounts of beta-amyloid may be associated with a greater risk of getting Alzheimer's disease. This study will see if simvastatin can lower the amount of beta-amyloid in the spinal fluid. This study will also see if simvastatin affects memory and thinking, blood flow in the brain and blood vessel function. The investigators hope that future studies show whether simvastatin might prevent memory loss and decrease the chance of developing Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of the research is to see how simvastatin affects a substance in the body called beta-amyloid. Beta-amyloid is found in the brain and in the liquid around the brain and spinal cord. High amounts of beta-amyloid may be associated with a greater risk of getting Alzheimer's disease. This study will see if simvastatin can lower the amount of beta-amyloid in the spinal fluid. This study will also see if simvastatin affects memory and thinking, blood flow in the brain and blood vessel function. The investigators hope that future studies show whether simvastatin might prevent memory loss and decrease the chance of developing Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02260141
To study the effectiveness of d-ribose in treating Alzheimer's and Dementia To study the effectiveness of d-ribose in treating Alzheimer's and Dementia.

>>NCT02054208
This combined phase 1 - 2a clinical trial is to investigate the safety, dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and exploratory efficacy of three repeated intraventricular administrations of NEUROSTEM (human umbilical cord blood-derived mesenchymal stem cells) versus placebo via an Ommaya reservoir at 4 week intervals in patients with Alzheimer's disease. This combined phase 1 - 2a clinical trial is to investigate the safety, dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and exploratory efficacy of three repeated intraventricular administrations of NEUROSTEM (human umbilical cord blood-derived mesenchymal stem cells) versus placebo via an Ommaya reservoir at 4 week intervals in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01266525
Primary Objective:.
 - To demonstrate the efficacy of at least one dose of SAR110894 (H3 receptor antagonist) in comparison to placebo on cognitive performance in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) while on stable donepezil therapy.
 Secondary Objectives:.
 - To explore the effect of SAR110894 on functional impairment, global clinical status and behavioral disturbances;.
 - To assess the safety/tolerability of SAR110894;.
 - To assess pharmacokinetic (PK) of SAR110894 and concentrations of donepezil;.
 - To explore caregiver time consumption and distress changes. Primary Objective:.
 - To demonstrate the efficacy of at least one dose of SAR110894 (H3 receptor antagonist) in comparison to placebo on cognitive performance in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) while on stable donepezil therapy.
 Secondary Objectives:.
 - To explore the effect of SAR110894 on functional impairment, global clinical status and behavioral disturbances;.
 - To assess the safety/tolerability of SAR110894;.
 - To assess pharmacokinetic (PK) of SAR110894 and concentrations of donepezil;.
 - To explore caregiver time consumption and distress changes.

>>NCT00630500
A 24-week placebo-controlled parallel group multicentre trial to study the safety and efficacy of memantine in patients with dementia associated with Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. It is hypothesized that memantine will be safe and well tolerated and more effective than placebo.

>>NCT00253188
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of two doses of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of two doses of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01874418
The purpose of our study is to investigate CSF and blood biomarkers among the subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) as well as normal controls. The purpose of our study is to investigate CSF and blood biomarkers among the subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) as well as normal controls.

>>NCT00951834
EGCG has shown a neuroprotective effect in cell-experimental and animal studies. The neuroprotective mechanism of EGCG probably bases - besides the known antioxidant effect - amongst others on the modulation of several signal transduction pathways, the influence on the expression of genes which regulate cell survival resp. programmed cell death, as well as the modulation of the mitochondrial function. In different Alzheimer models EGCG seems to cause an induction of alpha-secretase and the endothelin-converting-enzyme, as well as to prevent the aggregation of beta-amyloid to toxic oligomers through the direct binding to the unfolded peptide.
 The investigators therefore expect EGCG to have a positive influence on the course of the Alzheimers Disease. EGCG has shown a neuroprotective effect in cell-experimental and animal studies. The neuroprotective mechanism of EGCG probably bases - besides the known antioxidant effect - amongst others on the modulation of several signal transduction pathways, the influence on the expression of genes which regulate cell survival resp. programmed cell death, as well as the modulation of the mitochondrial function. In different Alzheimer models EGCG seems to cause an induction of alpha-secretase and the endothelin-converting-enzyme, as well as to prevent the aggregation of beta-amyloid to toxic oligomers through the direct binding to the unfolded peptide.
 The investigators therefore expect EGCG to have a positive influence on the course of the Alzheimers Disease.

>>NCT00478491
The purpose of this study is to investigate the organization of memory and develop future methods for early detection of AD. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we examine the responsiveness of the brain to memory tasks, specifically focusing on regions of the brain (the mesial temporal lobe and posterior cingulate) that are known to be involved in early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Of interest are differences in brain activation between people with and without a family history of AD and other risk factors.

>>NCT00259480
The specific aims of this study are to:.
 1. Test the immediate effectiveness of the intervention to reduce caregiver upset with targeted disruptive behaviors (primary outcome). Hypothesis: Caregivers in the intervention group will report less upset with target behaviors at 4-months in comparison to caregivers in the control group.
 2. Test the immediate effectiveness of the intervention to reduce caregiver burden (secondary outcome). Hypothesis: Caregivers in the intervention group will report less burden at 4-months in comparison to caregivers in the control group.
 3. Test the immediate effectiveness of the intervention to reduce the frequency of occurrence of targeted disruptive behaviors in persons with dementia (secondary outcome). Hypothesis: Caregivers in the intervention group will report a decrease in the frequency of occurrence of targeted behaviors at 4-months in comparison to caregivers in the control group.
 4. Test the maintenance effect of intervention at 6-months on caregiver upset and burden and targeted disruptive behaviors. Hypothesis: Compared to usual care, caregivers in intervention will maintain reduced upset and burden and report less occurrences of targeted behaviors from 4 to 6-months.
 5. Assess the cost of the intervention and its cost effectiveness.
 We have also received funding to conduct a supplementary study to evaluate the effect of the nurse intervention on behavior reduction and caregiver distress. The specific aims of this supplementary study arm are to: 1) describe the prevalence and type of medical conditions among control group participants who receive the nurse intervention, 2) describe for those with a detected medical condition/problem, the number of caregivers who follow-up with physicians and the type of physician follow-up/treatment that occurs; 3) evaluate whether control group participants who receive the nurse intervention report reduced disruptive behaviors and caregiver upset at 6 weeks (pre-post comparison); and 4) for control group participants who receive the nurse intervention, compare the level of disruptive behaviors and caregiver upset 4 months from entry into this study arm with the results in the Project ACT experimental group (who received the multi-component intervention).

>>NCT02317523
This study evaluates the effectiveness of Behavioral Activation (BA) therapy vs Support and Information for reducing risk for emotional and cardiovascular diseases in Alzheimer's caregivers. Half of participants will receive BA and the other half will receive support and information. This study evaluates the effectiveness of Behavioral Activation (BA) therapy vs Support and Information for reducing risk for emotional and cardiovascular diseases in Alzheimer's caregivers. Half of participants will receive BA and the other half will receive support and information.

>>NCT02710188
The purpose of this study is to find a modified release oral tablet formulation for this drug, which will be safe and well tolerated. The purpose of this study is to find a modified release oral tablet formulation for this drug, which will be safe and well tolerated.

>>NCT00013923
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a nutritional supplement that has been developed to improve the brain function of a patient with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a nutritional supplement that has been developed to improve the brain function of a patient with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01314131
The purpose is to evaluate patients' interests (patients in nursing home). Moreover the study aims to evaluate whether an activity for which the patient is interested in, allows a better involvement and stimulation. The purpose is to evaluate patients' interests (patients in nursing home). Moreover the study aims to evaluate whether an activity for which the patient is interested in, allows a better involvement and stimulation.

>>NCT00991419
The purpose of this study is to compare PET measurements of fibrillar amyloid burden using [18F]AZD4694.

>>NCT02303158
It is currently accepted that depression during midlife is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, several prospective population studies have demonstrated that depression is an independent risk factor for incident dementia of different types (e.g. vascular, mixed, Alzheimer's disease). However, it is not clear, what are the mechanisms that link depression and dementia and if depression can be a prodromal manifestation of AD. There are also studies that suggest that depression could be an initial sign of AD.
 Objective:.
 1. Demonstrate that late life depression (over 60 years of age) constitutes the first manifestation of AD.
 2. Define by rating scales and life stressors have differential risk profiles evolutionary AD.
 3. To study the relationship between the subtypes of depression and CSF biomarkers, neurophycological test and evolution to AD. It is currently accepted that depression during midlife is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, several prospective population studies have demonstrated that depression is an independent risk factor for incident dementia of different types (e.g. vascular, mixed, Alzheimer's disease). However, it is not clear, what are the mechanisms that link depression and dementia and if depression can be a prodromal manifestation of AD. There are also studies that suggest that depression could be an initial sign of AD.
 Objective:.
 1. Demonstrate that late life depression (over 60 years of age) constitutes the first manifestation of AD.
 2. Define by rating scales and life stressors have differential risk profiles evolutionary AD.
 3. To study the relationship between the subtypes of depression and CSF biomarkers, neurophycological test and evolution to AD.

>>NCT01872598
The objective is to compare the efficacy and safety of oral masitinib 3 or 4.5 mg/kg/day in combination with cholinesterase inhibitors and/or memantine to placebo in combination with cholinesterase inhibitors and/or memantine in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease. The objective is to compare the efficacy and safety of oral masitinib 3 or 4.5 mg/kg/day in combination with cholinesterase inhibitors and/or memantine to placebo in combination with cholinesterase inhibitors and/or memantine in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01970150
The purpose of this study is to examine whether the rTMS (repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation) could change cortical excitability measured by off-line EEG in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) patients. The purpose of this study is to examine whether the rTMS (repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation) could change cortical excitability measured by off-line EEG in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) patients.

>>NCT01482845
This study will investigate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of ABT-126 in up to 20 male and female subjects, between 55 to 90 years of age with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease on stable doses of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. This study will investigate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of ABT-126 in up to 20 male and female subjects, between 55 to 90 years of age with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease on stable doses of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.

>>NCT00876863
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the potential benefits of CERE-110 in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. CERE-110 is an experimental drug that is designed to help nerve cells in the brain function better. CERE-110 uses a virus to transfer a gene that makes Nerve Growth Factor (NGF), a protein that may make nerve cells in the brain healthier and protect them from dying. The virus used in CERE-110 does not cause disease in people. CERE-110 has been carefully studied in laboratory animals and is in the early stages of being tested in people.
 Fifty patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease will participate in this study. Half of the study subjects will have CERE-110 injected into the brain during a surgical procedure, while the other half will undergo a "placebo" surgery where no medication will be injected. All study participants will be followed for at least two years after surgery.

>>NCT02626377
Medical progress and modification of lifestyles have prolonged life expectancy, despite the development of chronic diseases. The support and care are often provided by a network of informal caregivers composed of family, friends and neighbors. They became essential to help maintening the elderly persons to live at home. It has been demonstrated that the importance and the diversity of informal tasks may jeopardize their own physical, mental and social well-being.
 The aim of the Informal Carers of Elderly Cohort is to define, through a longitudinal study of their life course, the profiles of caregivers of patients with a diagnosis of one of the following diseases: cancer (breast, prostate, colon-rectum), neuro-degenerative diseases (Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's and similar diseases), neuro-vascular diseases (Cerebrovascular Accident (CVA), Age-related Macular Degeneration(AMD) and heart disease (heart failure), aged >= 60 years old and living in Burgundy or Franche-Comte. By following the different phases of the caregiving relationship from the announcement of the diagnosis, it will be possible to assess the quality of life of caregivers and evaluate the implementation of a pragmatic social action to help informal caregivers through a randomized intervention trial nested in the cohort.
 Thanks to an analytical and longitudinal definition of the profiles of informal caregivers, this study could gather precise information on their life courses and their health trajectory by identifying the consequences associated with the concept of their role of aid in care. In addition, the randomized intervention trial will explore the efficacy, in terms of quality of life and efficiency of a social action to support the caregivers. These data will allow to identify strategies that could be used to improve the existing sources of aid and to propose new approaches to help caregivers. This study will provide the opportunity to identify the most relevant means of support and to give an impulse for new healthcare policies.

>>NCT00375557
The primary aim is to determine whether Divalproex ER or one of the atypical antipsychotics is more effective improving dementia related behavioral symptoms in patients with dementia and evaluate the impact of such improvements on other clinical domains, such as quality of life, functional status. The primary aim is to determine whether Divalproex ER or one of the atypical antipsychotics is more effective improving dementia related behavioral symptoms in patients with dementia and evaluate the impact of such improvements on other clinical domains, such as quality of life, functional status.

>>NCT01622894
Genetics of mendelian forms of young onset Alzheimer Disease (GMAJ project).
 Introduction : Autosomal dominant forms of Alzheimer disease (AD) are characterized by young age of onset. In France the prevalence was estimated at around 1000 cases. The Phenotypical Expression: There is diversity in phenotypical expression, associating dementia, spastic paraplegia, early extrapyramidal syndrome, ataxia or stroke caused by severe cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Diversity in neuropathological expression is demonstrated by the presence of cotton wool plaques, Lewy bodies with Lewy neurites and severe cerebral amyloid angiopathy.
 The study of mendelian forms is decisive in the physiopathological comprehension of AD and related diseases, since the alteration of those genes involved is sufficient to cause the disease. In AD, identification of these genetic causes allows the formulation of the amyloid hypothesis, which is the basis of current therapeutic developments concerning the Ab peptide. Currently three genes (APP, PSEN1, PSEN2) are identified in early onset mendelian forms and their mutations are involved in 80% of the 139 French families, studied since 1993 within the framework of U614 and the National Reference Centre for Alzheimer Disease in young subjects (CNR-MAJ).These results are arguments in favor of the GMAJ project and have two main objectives:.
 (i) to identify new genes in mendelian AD forms without detectable alteration on known genes.
 (ii) to correlate phenotypes and genotypes within families associated with known mutations and extend the description of the phenotypical spectrum.
 Population: Families eligible for this study are those with at least 2 individuals with AD criteria (clinical or neuropathological) with onset before 65 years of age. Duration of inclusion is 3 years. This multicentre study groups 23 clinical centres. The inclusion number is 50 new families per year.
 Method: Extension and description of families with unknown genetic causes, inclusion of novel families with autosomal dominant AD. The successive steps of the project are the following:.
 (i) Thorough phenotypical characterization in order to document family history and characterize the probands and affected related subjects according to standardized protocol for clinical, neuropsychological, biological (biomarker determination in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid) and imaging data (MRI, TEMP).
 (ii) Identify known genetic causes (PSEN1 - 2, APP) with novel autosomal dominant families.
 (iii) Extend analysis of the pedigrees of families with unknown genetic causes.
 (iv) Identify novel genetic causes within these families which are negative for known mutations.
 This study uses 3 methods:.
 - pangenomic search is performed for microalterations (Copy Number Variants or CNV) by Comparative Genomic Hybridization (CGH) with high resolution (10 kb on average).
 - potential targets are then validated by the study of large control populations, intrafamilial cosegregation and functional validation.
 - the remaining families at the end of this stage will be characterized by means of high throughput sequencing of all exonic areas.
 (v) Follow up study of patients and siblings with 2 goals:.
 - evaluation of the disease course and consequences (individual, familial and social);.
 - occurrence of novel AD cases within the family.
 (vi) Neuropathological description with potential novel description of atypical AD cases.
 Results and consequences: Identification of novel genetic causes of AD are of importance in completing the mechanisms of the amyloidergic hypothesis. This project is useful to promote the guidelines on the genetic diagnosis of AD in France.

>>NCT01009476
The main objective of this non-interventional study was to document the long-term application of galantamine and nootropics (memory enhancing drugs) over a period of 1 year under conditions of daily routine. There were no predefined specifications of diagnostic and therapeutic measures. The decision for treatment with either galantamine or a nootropic had to be made by the treating physician prior to the start of documentation. The following measures were to be documented: safety, tolerability, dementia-associated symptoms (unstable walking, vertigo, awakening at night, shouting/screaming at night, perambulating at night, aggressiveness, agitation, apathy/social retreat, delusions, hallucinations, behavior that poses a risk to self or others and daytime tiredness), frequency of admissions to nursing homes or nursing services, global functional level, caregiver's burden and time spent on caregiving. Furthermore, this study aimed to gather knowledge on the differentiated use of the two treatment strategies considering the specific diagnosis of dementia (e.g. Alzheimer's disease only or mixed dementia, i.e. Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease) and risk profiles. The main objective of this non-interventional study was to document the long-term application of galantamine and nootropics (memory enhancing drugs) over a period of 1 year under conditions of daily routine. There were no predefined specifications of diagnostic and therapeutic measures. The decision for treatment with either galantamine or a nootropic had to be made by the treating physician prior to the start of documentation. The following measures were to be documented: safety, tolerability, dementia-associated symptoms (unstable walking, vertigo, awakening at night, shouting/screaming at night, perambulating at night, aggressiveness, agitation, apathy/social retreat, delusions, hallucinations, behavior that poses a risk to self or others and daytime tiredness), frequency of admissions to nursing homes or nursing services, global functional level, caregiver's burden and time spent on caregiving. Furthermore, this study aimed to gather knowledge on the differentiated use of the two treatment strategies considering the specific diagnosis of dementia (e.g. Alzheimer's disease only or mixed dementia, i.e. Alzheimer's disease and cerebrovascular disease) and risk profiles.

>>NCT02667665
Examine the construct validity, the test-retest reliability, the concurrent validity with the standard dementia rating scales and the reactivity of a novel dementia rating scale "QuQu scale: QUick QUestion scale" final for the evaluation of patients with Alzheimer's Disease Dementia and Mild Cognitive Impairment.

>>NCT00012857
Dementia illness often co-exists with painful medical conditions associated with aging (e.g., degenerative joint disease, osteoarthritis, skin ulcers, back pain, headaches, cancer or angina). While the standard practice is pain assessment for all patients, the elderly with dementia have special needs for assessment, management and evaluation. When they are unable to verbalize pain, objective measurement of their discomfort are possible manifestations of pain. No research relates systemic pain treatment with reduction of negative problematic behaviors in patient dementia. Dementia illness often co-exists with painful medical conditions associated with aging (e.g., degenerative joint disease, osteoarthritis, skin ulcers, back pain, headaches, cancer or angina). While the standard practice is pain assessment for all patients, the elderly with dementia have special needs for assessment, management and evaluation. When they are unable to verbalize pain, objective measurement of their discomfort are possible manifestations of pain. No research relates systemic pain treatment with reduction of negative problematic behaviors in patient dementia.

>>NCT00940589
The aim of this exploratory randomized, placebo controlled study is to evaluate the efficacy of Circadin 2mg in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer Disease (AD) treated with the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor. The effects of add-on Circadin 2mg vs. placebo on the decline in cognitive skills and global functioning, as well as on daytime somnolence and will be assessed.

>>NCT01095718
This study is a comparison of 3 learning techniques, Errorless learning, modelling and trial and error, in the relearning of IADL of Alzheimer patients from mild to moderately severe dementia.
 Tailored IADL will be chosen for each patient (n=300) and trained in individualized sessions for 6 weeks.
 This study focuses on the relationship between learning techniques, IADL and memory processes, in a threefold way:.
 1. it will determine which of the of the three learning techniques (EL, MR, TE) will improve most the (re)learning of instrumental skills in different dementia stages using a randomized controlled trial;.
 2. it will explain the role of implicit and explicit memory mechanisms in the (re)learning of IADL tasks; and.
 3. as a secondary objective, it will explore the possible drug treatment by behavioral intervention interaction effects of the three learning techniques. This study is a comparison of 3 learning techniques, Errorless learning, modelling and trial and error, in the relearning of IADL of Alzheimer patients from mild to moderately severe dementia.
 Tailored IADL will be chosen for each patient (n=300) and trained in individualized sessions for 6 weeks.
 This study focuses on the relationship between learning techniques, IADL and memory processes, in a threefold way:.
 1. it will determine which of the of the three learning techniques (EL, MR, TE) will improve most the (re)learning of instrumental skills in different dementia stages using a randomized controlled trial;.
 2. it will explain the role of implicit and explicit memory mechanisms in the (re)learning of IADL tasks; and.
 3. as a secondary objective, it will explore the possible drug treatment by behavioral intervention interaction effects of the three learning techniques.

>>NCT02340195
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the pharmacokinetics properties of idalopirdine following multiple dosing in patients with renal impairment and compare to those in healthy subjects.

>>NCT00090116
Memory loss and difficulties with thinking associated with Alzheimer's disease may be due to chronic release of a brain chemical called glutamate. Glutamate helps transmit messages between nerve cells through interaction with a certain type of receptor (N-methyl-D-aspartate, NMDA) on the cell. Neramexane is a new drug that blocks the effects of excessive glutamate at the receptor (NMDA receptor antagonist).

>>NCT01221259
This study is designed as a single ascending dose study in healthy subjects to evaluate safety, tolerability, Pharmacokinetics (PK) and Pharmacodynamics (PD) in plasma and Cerebrospinal (CSF) following single oral doses of E2212.

>>NCT00814697
The investigators wish to investigate the efficacy of targeted repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on expressive language in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In rTMS, magnetic pulses are used to noninvasively stimulate focal areas of cortex of about a square centimeter in area. rTMS has been approved in the United States for the diagnosis of peripheral nerve conditions.
 Depending on the frequency of stimulation, rTMS can preferentially stimulate or inhibit cortical areas. In stroke rehabilitation, for example, inhibition of the contralateral, uninvolved hemisphere by low frequency rTMS has improved movement of the affected limbs because of less aberrant inhibition of the affected hemisphere by the healthy hemisphere. The effects of rTMS has also been investigated and found to be useful in treating refractory depression and depression in Parkinson's disease. In addition, rTMS has improved naming in patients with Alzheimer's disease and has improved cognitive abilities and memory in non-demented older adults. Two studies found that rTMS improved aphasia in patients with stroke. While these studies are small, a review of the literature suggests that there may be a beneficial role for rTMS in patients with chronic neurological conditions. In addition, rTMS appears to be well tolerated, with transient headaches being the most common side effect.
 In this small open label study, the investigators wish to investigate the usefulness of bilateral stimulation of the brain region termed the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in patients with AD who have naming and language deficits. The investigators wish to investigate the efficacy of targeted repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on expressive language in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In rTMS, magnetic pulses are used to noninvasively stimulate focal areas of cortex of about a square centimeter in area. rTMS has been approved in the United States for the diagnosis of peripheral nerve conditions.
 Depending on the frequency of stimulation, rTMS can preferentially stimulate or inhibit cortical areas. In stroke rehabilitation, for example, inhibition of the contralateral, uninvolved hemisphere by low frequency rTMS has improved movement of the affected limbs because of less aberrant inhibition of the affected hemisphere by the healthy hemisphere. The effects of rTMS has also been investigated and found to be useful in treating refractory depression and depression in Parkinson's disease. In addition, rTMS has improved naming in patients with Alzheimer's disease and has improved cognitive abilities and memory in non-demented older adults. Two studies found that rTMS improved aphasia in patients with stroke. While these studies are small, a review of the literature suggests that there may be a beneficial role for rTMS in patients with chronic neurological conditions. In addition, rTMS appears to be well tolerated, with transient headaches being the most common side effect.
 In this small open label study, the investigators wish to investigate the usefulness of bilateral stimulation of the brain region termed the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in patients with AD who have naming and language deficits.

>>NCT01577394
The aim of this study is to determine whether saccadic eye movement recording may help in the discrimination between Lewy body dementia and Alzheimer disease, in the early stages of the disease.
 Study type: Interventional Study design: Intervention Model: Single group assignment Primary purpose: Diagnostic The aim of this study is to determine whether saccadic eye movement recording may help in the discrimination between Lewy body dementia and Alzheimer disease, in the early stages of the disease.
 Study type: Interventional Study design: Intervention Model: Single group assignment Primary purpose: Diagnostic.

>>NCT00666445
This study is designed to test the hypothesis that the Synchronous Neural Interaction Test is useful for diagnosing Probable Alzheimer's Disease according to standard criteria. Subjects diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease as well as age-matched normal control subjects will be evaluated for symptoms of Alzheimer's Disease and those meeting inclusion criteria will undergo a brief, non-invasive scan of brain function using a magnetoencephalography (MEG). The scan itself lasts 1 minute while the subject is asked to stare at a dot projected in front of them on a video screen. Orasi Medical believes that patterns of brain activity measured at rest are indicative of Alzheimer's Disease pathology.
 The protocol is amended to add a follow-up assessment for previously enrolled and completed subjects who agree to participate in the follow-up assessment approximately 9 - 15 months after initial study enrollment. Subjects who agree to participate in the follow-up assessment will undergo the same standardized tests and MEG scan procedure as completed in the initial study.

>>NCT00599469
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive and fatal brain disease. This study will investigate the use of far infrared radiation treatment for the disease. Alzheimer's disease is a progressive and fatal brain disease. This study will investigate the use of far infrared radiation treatment for the disease.

>>NCT02521558
The current study will examine the use of a mobile electronic application used to deliver cognitive rehabilitation to patients with mild cognitive impairment due (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and patients with mild AD. Patients will be given a specific cognitive rehabilitation program on their mobile device (iPad) with specific tasks for them to complete. The goal of this study is to determine if a) patients are able to use and adhere to a cognitive rehabilitation program delivered to their mobile device and b) to determine if patients can improve their language, attention and memory by completing cognitive rehabilitation tasks assigned to them. The current study will examine the use of a mobile electronic application used to deliver cognitive rehabilitation to patients with mild cognitive impairment due (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and patients with mild AD. Patients will be given a specific cognitive rehabilitation program on their mobile device (iPad) with specific tasks for them to complete. The goal of this study is to determine if a) patients are able to use and adhere to a cognitive rehabilitation program delivered to their mobile device and b) to determine if patients can improve their language, attention and memory by completing cognitive rehabilitation tasks assigned to them.

>>NCT01466088
Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia and is the fourth leading cause of death among people 65 years of age and older. The global prevalence of the disease will increase significantly as the population ages, unless preventative treatments can be identified and marketed. The present study seeks to evaluate AZD3480 (TC-1734) compared to an approved medication (donepezil) shown to improve cognition and function in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia and is the fourth leading cause of death among people 65 years of age and older. The global prevalence of the disease will increase significantly as the population ages, unless preventative treatments can be identified and marketed. The present study seeks to evaluate AZD3480 (TC-1734) compared to an approved medication (donepezil) shown to improve cognition and function in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01153607
PET (positron emission tomography) imaging with BAY1006578 for investigation of diagnostic potential in probable Alzheimer Disease patients versus healthy volunteers and radiation dosimetry in healthy volunteers.

>>NCT02694445
The purpose of the study is to estimate the Chinese economic burden in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of the study is to estimate the Chinese economic burden in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT02351882
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is commonly associated with behavioural changes such as agitation. Severe agitation is important to treat because it not only increases progression of AD and physical health problems (increased falls and weight loss) but it also decreases quality of life and increases caregiver stress. Currently prescribed treatments (i.e., antipsychotics) for agitation in AD do not work in everybody and when they do work the effect is small and they increase the risk of harmful side effects, including death. As a result, there is an urgent need for safer medication options. The cannabinoid nabilone can now be prescribed in capsule form for appetite and pain killing effects. Nabilone's calming effects may benefit those with agitation and help the weight loss and untreated pain frequently associated with agitation. Through a clinical trial, the investigators hope identify the benefits of nabilone in the treatment of agitation in AD.
 The investigators objective is to determine whether nabilone is an efficacious and safe treatment for agitation, as well as having benefits for pain, weight and behavioural symptoms. This will be a 14 week clinical trial (participants take nabilone for 6 weeks, placebo for 6 weeks (order randomized) with 1 week between treatments). The investigators will assess and compare agitation, weight, pain, memory, behaviour and safety.
 Nabilone is a new class of medication that may be a safe and effective treatment for agitation in AD, with added benefits on appetite and pain. Reducing these symptoms would increase quality-of-life and reduce caregiver stress. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is commonly associated with behavioural changes such as agitation. Severe agitation is important to treat because it not only increases progression of AD and physical health problems (increased falls and weight loss) but it also decreases quality of life and increases caregiver stress. Currently prescribed treatments (i.e., antipsychotics) for agitation in AD do not work in everybody and when they do work the effect is small and they increase the risk of harmful side effects, including death. As a result, there is an urgent need for safer medication options. The cannabinoid nabilone can now be prescribed in capsule form for appetite and pain killing effects. Nabilone's calming effects may benefit those with agitation and help the weight loss and untreated pain frequently associated with agitation. Through a clinical trial, the investigators hope identify the benefits of nabilone in the treatment of agitation in AD.
 The investigators objective is to determine whether nabilone is an efficacious and safe treatment for agitation, as well as having benefits for pain, weight and behavioural symptoms. This will be a 14 week clinical trial (participants take nabilone for 6 weeks, placebo for 6 weeks (order randomized) with 1 week between treatments). The investigators will assess and compare agitation, weight, pain, memory, behaviour and safety.
 Nabilone is a new class of medication that may be a safe and effective treatment for agitation in AD, with added benefits on appetite and pain. Reducing these symptoms would increase quality-of-life and reduce caregiver stress.

>>NCT01908010
This study will investigate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of ABT-354 in up to 20 male and female subjects, between 55 to 90 years of age with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease on stable doses of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. This study will investigate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of ABT-354 in up to 20 male and female subjects, between 55 to 90 years of age with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease on stable doses of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.

>>NCT01617577
Filgrastim (G-CSF) is widely used for treatment of patients who have a deficiency of white blood cells. It is also routinely used to stimulate and mobilize stem/progenitor cells for bone marrow transplantation. In studies of thousands of healthy donor subjects treated with G-CSF, the side-effects profile has been reported to be mild and reversible. Currently, G-CSF is under investigation in clinical trials in Germany and the US that aim to enhance recovery from strokes and heart attacks. In animal studies, G-CSF has been observed to improve cognitive performance and to markedly reduce amyloid deposition in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex in a mouse model of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Since this drug is being used safely in many people throughout the world, the investigators hypothesize that it will also be safe to give to patients with Alzheimer's disease and that it may improve some aspects of memory and thinking. The present pilot study has two goals or objectives: 1) to investigate the effects of a five day schedule of Filgrastim administration on cognitive function and 2) to assess its tolerability and safety in a small group (12 patients) with mild to moderate stage AD. Patients who are eligible for the study will be randomly assigned to one of two groups (n=6 per group). One group will receive a five-day course of Filgrastim injections and the other group of subjects will receive vehicle injections (solution without drug). At the end of the first phase of the study (week 8), the groups will cross over to receive either vehicle or Filgrastim as appropriate. In this way all subjects will have received the active medication by the end of the study. After the study is finished the investigators should know whether or not Filgrastim improves some aspects of thinking and memory. And the investigators should know whether or not it is safe to give this medication to patients with Alzheimer's disease. To ensure that the drug is safe, a Safety Monitoring Committee will oversee the entire study. They will review all laboratory data, including complete blood counts, serum chemistry, EKGs and adverse events. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is widely used for treatment of patients who have a deficiency of white blood cells. It is also routinely used to stimulate and mobilize stem/progenitor cells for bone marrow transplantation. In studies of thousands of healthy donor subjects treated with G-CSF, the side-effects profile has been reported to be mild and reversible. Currently, G-CSF is under investigation in clinical trials in Germany and the US that aim to enhance recovery from strokes and heart attacks. In animal studies, G-CSF has been observed to improve cognitive performance and to markedly reduce amyloid deposition in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex in a mouse model of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Since this drug is being used safely in many people throughout the world, the investigators hypothesize that it will also be safe to give to patients with Alzheimer's disease and that it may improve some aspects of memory and thinking. The present pilot study has two goals or objectives: 1) to investigate the effects of a five day schedule of Filgrastim administration on cognitive function and 2) to assess its tolerability and safety in a small group (12 patients) with mild to moderate stage AD. Patients who are eligible for the study will be randomly assigned to one of two groups (n=6 per group). One group will receive a five-day course of Filgrastim injections and the other group of subjects will receive vehicle injections (solution without drug). At the end of the first phase of the study (week 8), the groups will cross over to receive either vehicle or Filgrastim as appropriate. In this way all subjects will have received the active medication by the end of the study. After the study is finished the investigators should know whether or not Filgrastim improves some aspects of thinking and memory. And the investigators should know whether or not it is safe to give this medication to patients with Alzheimer's disease. To ensure that the drug is safe, a Safety Monitoring Committee will oversee the entire study. They will review all laboratory data, including complete blood counts, serum chemistry, EKGs and adverse events.

>>NCT00954538
This study will estimate the radiochemical and radiation safety and assess the efficacy of [18F]MK-3328, a novel positron emission tomography (PET) tracer. The study safety hypotheses will test whether [18F]MK-3328 is sufficiently safe and well-tolerated, based on an assessment of clinical and laboratory evaluations and adverse experiences in healthy participants, including healthy elderly (HE) participants and Alzheimer's disease (AD) participants, to permit continued investigation. The study efficacy hypothesis will test whether [18F]MK-3328 can discriminate between AD participants and cognitively normal elderly control participants based on tracer volume of distribution or one of its surrogates, in brain posterior cingulate gyrus.

>>NCT00183378
This study will compare four different behavioral treatment programs to determine which is most effective in reducing night-time disturbances in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study will compare four different behavioral treatment programs to determine which is most effective in reducing night-time disturbances in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00480220
The main objective of this work is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of a specific Care and Assistance Plan for Alzheimer's disease (PLASA). The main outcome measure selected is incapacity in carrying out the basic activities of daily living, evaluated by the ADCS-ADL scale .
 The PLASA was developed by a working group appointed by the Direction Gnrale de la Sant as part of the government programme of action on Alzheimer's disease (October 2001, Ministre de l'Emploi et de la Solidarit). The main objective of this work is to assess the feasibility and efficacy of a specific Care and Assistance Plan for Alzheimer's disease (PLASA). The main outcome measure selected is incapacity in carrying out the basic activities of daily living, evaluated by the ADCS-ADL scale .
 The PLASA was developed by a working group appointed by the Direction Gnrale de la Sant as part of the government programme of action on Alzheimer's disease (October 2001, Ministre de l'Emploi et de la Solidarit).

>>NCT00743418
The research is aimed at exploring the application of novel tracking technique for the study of spatial activity among dementia patients and its implication on their families. The study sample will be composed of three groups of volunteers, each including100 participants aged over 60 years. The first group will include MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment) patients. The second group will include patients that suffer from mild dementia. The third group will include age matched healthy participants. The tracking equipment will be a GPS apparatus of 450 gms that will be carried by the participants for 24 hours along 2-4 weeks. The GPS data will be transferred via the cellular network to operator center at the Hebrew university at Jerusalem and will be documented in assigned data files. This monitoring procedure will be held every year and along a period of five years. The impact of the patient behavior on the care giver will be studied by means of five interviews along the tracking period.

>>NCT00174382
To document effectiveness, safety and tolerability of donepezil in patients with mixed AD/VaD and to further document the effectiveness, safety and tolerability of donepezil in patients with VaD. The effects of donepezil on executive functioning, behavior, general cognition, ADLs and global functioning will be assessed. To document effectiveness, safety and tolerability of donepezil in patients with mixed AD/VaD and to further document the effectiveness, safety and tolerability of donepezil in patients with VaD. The effects of donepezil on executive functioning, behavior, general cognition, ADLs and global functioning will be assessed.

>>NCT02149017
To evaluate pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy of SNUBH-NM-333(18F), a new diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for PET imaging of amyloid plaques, in Alzheimer's disease patients and healthy volunteers. To evaluate pharmacokinetics, safety and efficacy of SNUBH-NM-333(18F), a new diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for PET imaging of amyloid plaques, in Alzheimer's disease patients and healthy volunteers.

>>NCT02290912
This is a randomized controlled trial to develop and test the efficacy of a multi-domain lifestyle behavioral intervention designed to promote healthier lifestyle behaviors linked to lower Alzheimer's disease risk among persons aged 40 to 64 years. This is a randomized controlled trial to develop and test the efficacy of a multi-domain lifestyle behavioral intervention designed to promote healthier lifestyle behaviors linked to lower Alzheimer's disease risk among persons aged 40 to 64 years.

>>NCT00811122
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and neuronal cell loss. Amyloid plaques are believed to play an integral role in AD. Elevated levels of A in the brain are correlated with cognitive decline.
 There are no approved ways to measure amyloid load in humans. Several compounds are under investigation. All of these compounds use radioactive chemical tags for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. The most promising compound is 11C-PIB or Pittsburgh Compound-B. This compound can be injected and a PET scan performed. This allows doctors to see the amyloid plaques in the brain and to use this information to look at other types of dementia to see if there are differences and/or similarities in the plaques.
 We will recruit a total of 30 subjects, 10 from each of the following three diagnostic categories: frontotemporal dementia (FTD), Alzheimer's disease and normal volunteers. All subjects will be given an [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose or FDG-PET scan (if they haven't had one in the past) and a PIB-PET scan.
 The overall objective of this project is to study the biodistribution of 11C-PIB using PET imaging in normal elderly volunteers and relevant patient groups. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by neuritic plaques, neurofibrillary tangles and neuronal cell loss. Amyloid plaques are believed to play an integral role in AD. Elevated levels of A in the brain are correlated with cognitive decline.
 There are no approved ways to measure amyloid load in humans. Several compounds are under investigation. All of these compounds use radioactive chemical tags for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. The most promising compound is 11C-PIB or Pittsburgh Compound-B. This compound can be injected and a PET scan performed. This allows doctors to see the amyloid plaques in the brain and to use this information to look at other types of dementia to see if there are differences and/or similarities in the plaques.
 We will recruit a total of 30 subjects, 10 from each of the following three diagnostic categories: frontotemporal dementia (FTD), Alzheimer's disease and normal volunteers. All subjects will be given an [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose or FDG-PET scan (if they haven't had one in the past) and a PIB-PET scan.
 The overall objective of this project is to study the biodistribution of 11C-PIB using PET imaging in normal elderly volunteers and relevant patient groups.

>>NCT02260700
The purpose of this study is to determine pharmacokinetics (the study of the way a drug enters and leaves the blood and tissues over time) and the relative-bioavailability (the extent to which a drug or other substance becomes available to the body) of JNJ-54861911 solid dosage formulation compared with JNJ 54861911 oral suspension formulation in healthy older male participants. The purpose of this study is to determine pharmacokinetics (the study of the way a drug enters and leaves the blood and tissues over time) and the relative-bioavailability (the extent to which a drug or other substance becomes available to the body) of JNJ-54861911 solid dosage formulation compared with JNJ 54861911 oral suspension formulation in healthy older male participants.

>>NCT00216515
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of galantamine on the attention of patients with Alzheimer's Disease, how an improvement of attention of Alzheimer's Disease patients affects their activities of daily living and the global benefit of galantamine. The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of galantamine on the attention of patients with Alzheimer's Disease, how an improvement of attention of Alzheimer's Disease patients affects their activities of daily living and the global benefit of galantamine.

>>NCT02205710
Cognitive training has emerged as a promising method to maintain, enhance and rehabilitate cognitive function in older adults and individuals with dementia. In recent years, such training has become particularly appealing in the clinical context, with many paradigms aimed specifically at adults experiencing various stages of cognitive decline due to Mild Cognitive Impairment, Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementias. However, basic questions remain. For example, uncertainty persists regarding factors that influence observed improvements as well as the conditions that would maximize transfer and sustainability of training effects. The objective of this study is to evaluate factors that may maximize the benefits of computerized cognitive training in older adults.

>>NCT01561053
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the changes in the cognitive, functional, behavioral and global domains based on the different applicable psychometric batteries and scales. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the changes in the cognitive, functional, behavioral and global domains based on the different applicable psychometric batteries and scales.

>>NCT00453544
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of an enhanced consent procedure for patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer disease and to identify factors and patient characteristics that predict the degree to which enhanced consent is more beneficial than routine consent procedures. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of an enhanced consent procedure for patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer disease and to identify factors and patient characteristics that predict the degree to which enhanced consent is more beneficial than routine consent procedures.

>>NCT01028911
This is a study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and blood levels of PF-03654746 in subjects will mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00605059
The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I AV94, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged healthy controls and Alzheimer's (AD) subjects.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I AV94 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I AV94 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I AV94 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy controls The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I AV94, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged healthy controls and Alzheimer's (AD) subjects.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I AV94 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I AV94 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I AV94 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy controls.

>>NCT00009217
The optimal strategy for the treatment of behavioral complications in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unclear.
 The objective of this study is to evaluate the risk of relapse following discontinuation of haloperidol in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) with psychosis or agitation who respond to it.
 In Phase A of this study, AD outpatients with behavioral complications receive 20 weeks of open haloperidol treatment with an oral dose of 1-5 mg daily, titrated individually to achieve the optimal trade-off between efficacy and side effects. Responders to Phase A participate in Phase B, a 24-week continuation trial in which patients are randomized to continuation haloperidol or placebo.
 The primary outcome is the time to relapse of psychosis or behavioral disturbance. The optimal strategy for the treatment of behavioral complications in patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains unclear.
 The objective of this study is to evaluate the risk of relapse following discontinuation of haloperidol in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) with psychosis or agitation who respond to it.
 In Phase A of this study, AD outpatients with behavioral complications receive 20 weeks of open haloperidol treatment with an oral dose of 1-5 mg daily, titrated individually to achieve the optimal trade-off between efficacy and side effects. Responders to Phase A participate in Phase B, a 24-week continuation trial in which patients are randomized to continuation haloperidol or placebo.
 The primary outcome is the time to relapse of psychosis or behavioral disturbance.

>>NCT02529436
Near 40% of French people aged 65 years and over and suffering from Alzheimer disease and associated disorders (ADAD) are exposed to antidepressants (AD) versus 13% of those without ADAD. If depression and anxiety disorders are comorbidities frequently associated with dementia, such level of AD exposure suggests an overuse of AD in this population.
 Hypothesis: Overuse of AD is frequent in patients with ADAD. It is possible to assess overuse associated with off label prescriptions (no validated indication and excess in prescription duration) Main objective: to assess the prevalence of AD overuse associated with off label prescriptions (no validated indication and excess in prescription duration) in patients aged 70 years and over with ADAD.
 Secondary objectives:.
 1. To assess the prevalence of AD prescribed for a non validated indication.
 2. To assess the prevalence of AD prescribed with excess in prescription duration.
 3. To assess the prevalence of psychotropic coprescription and notably the prevalence of the neurologic iatrogenic alerts as defined by the French National Authority for Health.
 4. To assess factors associated to AD overuse Method: A transversal monocentric study in the geriatric day Bretonneau unit will be performed. Study will be proposed to all eligible patients (with non-opposition of the patient or of his legal representative to the collection of his personal data). Included people will have no supplementary clinical or complementary investigations. The geriatrician in charge will have to systematically collect the indication and the history of the AD treatment. At the end of the evaluation performed in the geriatric day unit, the geriatrician will have to conclude to the AD overuse or not associated with off label prescription. Doubtful case will be examined by a validation committee.
 Eligibility criteria: Patient consulting in geriatric day hospital with age >=70 years and dementia according to DSMIV criteria, whatever its level and antidepressant prescription.
 Sample size Considering that 40% of people suffering from ADAD are prescribed antidepressant (data from French Health Insurance), the number of eligible patients consulting in the geriatric day swill be 65 in 6 months. If 10% of them are opposed to the collection of their personal data and if the overuse of AD is near 50%, precision of the result will be 12.8% (95%CI bilateral).
 Duration of inclusion: 6 months Duration of patient's participation: one day Near 40% of French people aged 65 years and over and suffering from Alzheimer disease and associated disorders (ADAD) are exposed to antidepressants (AD) versus 13% of those without ADAD. If depression and anxiety disorders are comorbidities frequently associated with dementia, such level of AD exposure suggests an overuse of AD in this population.
 Hypothesis: Overuse of AD is frequent in patients with ADAD. It is possible to assess overuse associated with off label prescriptions (no validated indication and excess in prescription duration) Main objective: to assess the prevalence of AD overuse associated with off label prescriptions (no validated indication and excess in prescription duration) in patients aged 70 years and over with ADAD.
 Secondary objectives:.
 1. To assess the prevalence of AD prescribed for a non validated indication.
 2. To assess the prevalence of AD prescribed with excess in prescription duration.
 3. To assess the prevalence of psychotropic coprescription and notably the prevalence of the neurologic iatrogenic alerts as defined by the French National Authority for Health.
 4. To assess factors associated to AD overuse Method: A transversal monocentric study in the geriatric day Bretonneau unit will be performed. Study will be proposed to all eligible patients (with non-opposition of the patient or of his legal representative to the collection of his personal data). Included people will have no supplementary clinical or complementary investigations. The geriatrician in charge will have to systematically collect the indication and the history of the AD treatment. At the end of the evaluation performed in the geriatric day unit, the geriatrician will have to conclude to the AD overuse or not associated with off label prescription. Doubtful case will be examined by a validation committee.
 Eligibility criteria: Patient consulting in geriatric day hospital with age >=70 years and dementia according to DSMIV criteria, whatever its level and antidepressant prescription.
 Sample size Considering that 40% of people suffering from ADAD are prescribed antidepressant (data from French Health Insurance), the number of eligible patients consulting in the geriatric day swill be 65 in 6 months. If 10% of them are opposed to the collection of their personal data and if the overuse of AD is near 50%, precision of the result will be 12.8% (95%CI bilateral).
 Duration of inclusion: 6 months Duration of patient's participation: one day.

>>NCT00304629
The long-term safety and efficacy of galantamine (12 mg bid) will be documented during a one year open-label treatment in subjects with Alzheimer's Disease who completed the GAL-INT-8 trial (up to 400 eligible patients). Safety will be tracked by means of adverse event reports, laboratory parameters and physical exam. Long-term efficacy will be evaluated by means of a Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale(ADAS) and activities of daily living scale Disability Assessment for Dementia Scale(DAD) The long-term safety and efficacy of galantamine (12 mg bid) will be documented during a one year open-label treatment in subjects with Alzheimer's Disease who completed the GAL-INT-8 trial (up to 400 eligible patients). Safety will be tracked by means of adverse event reports, laboratory parameters and physical exam. Long-term efficacy will be evaluated by means of a Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale(ADAS) and activities of daily living scale Disability Assessment for Dementia Scale(DAD).

>>NCT02849639
The study will examine the impact on cognitive reserve of a pharmacist-physician patient-centered medication therapy management intervention to address inappropriate medication use as identified by the Beers 2015 list. By bolstering cognitive reserve, this project will directly address the National Alzheimer's Project Act 2015 priorities serving to delay onset of symptoms in preclinical dementia. The results of this study will provide valuable insights on how to expand this intervention to reduce the prevalence and associated healthcare costs of symptomatic Alzheimer's disease. The study will examine the impact on cognitive reserve of a pharmacist-physician patient-centered medication therapy management intervention to address inappropriate medication use as identified by the Beers 2015 list. By bolstering cognitive reserve, this project will directly address the National Alzheimer's Project Act 2015 priorities serving to delay onset of symptoms in preclinical dementia. The results of this study will provide valuable insights on how to expand this intervention to reduce the prevalence and associated healthcare costs of symptomatic Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02814045
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease, manifested as an initial deficit of episodic memory that evolves into a global cognitive and psychosocial dysfunction and which prevalence is increasing around the world. Sleep disturbance is frequent since early stages of the disease and sleep fragmentation had been demonstrated increase the production of amyloid peptide (AB) (main pathological hallmark) in non-demented population. Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA), which consist in intermittent hypoxia and sleep fragmentation, is a major health problem with multiple systemic effects and it's very prevalent in AD. However, the influence of this comorbidity on the cognitive evolution of AD patients remains unknown. The investigation of neurobiological markers and sleep recording may reveal potential mechanisms of neurodegeneration and explain the influence of sleep fragmentation and/or hypoxia on cognitive decline.
 To fill those gaps, investigators will perform a multidisciplinary and translational project to assess the progression of symptoms in AD patients, diagnosis of sleep disturbance and new biomarkers of progression of the disease.
 The present proposal is going to be developed by coordination of different expertises that will be range from the clinical research conducted by a medical neurologist, to the animal model and most molecular work, to be done by an experimented group in mouse work. Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease, manifested as an initial deficit of episodic memory that evolves into a global cognitive and psychosocial dysfunction and which prevalence is increasing around the world. Sleep disturbance is frequent since early stages of the disease and sleep fragmentation had been demonstrated increase the production of amyloid peptide (AB) (main pathological hallmark) in non-demented population. Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA), which consist in intermittent hypoxia and sleep fragmentation, is a major health problem with multiple systemic effects and it's very prevalent in AD. However, the influence of this comorbidity on the cognitive evolution of AD patients remains unknown. The investigation of neurobiological markers and sleep recording may reveal potential mechanisms of neurodegeneration and explain the influence of sleep fragmentation and/or hypoxia on cognitive decline.
 To fill those gaps, investigators will perform a multidisciplinary and translational project to assess the progression of symptoms in AD patients, diagnosis of sleep disturbance and new biomarkers of progression of the disease.
 The present proposal is going to be developed by coordination of different expertises that will be range from the clinical research conducted by a medical neurologist, to the animal model and most molecular work, to be done by an experimented group in mouse work.

>>NCT02109705
With this study the investigators would like to analyze the the role of periodontal disease and especially the role of Porphyromonas gingivalis in initiation and progression of Alzheimer`s Disease.

>>NCT01117181
The Apathy in Dementia Methylphenidate Trial (ADMET) is a masked, placebo-controlled trial that will examine the efficacy and safety of methylphenidate for the treatment of clinically significant apathy in patients with Alzheimer's dementia. The Apathy in Dementia Methylphenidate Trial (ADMET) is a masked, placebo-controlled trial that will examine the efficacy and safety of methylphenidate for the treatment of clinically significant apathy in patients with Alzheimer's dementia.

>>NCT00253214
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a once daily controlled-release form of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of a once daily controlled-release form of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02248116
Safety and tolerability. Quality of life (EQ-5D, ACQLI) and health economic impact (health resource utilisation, living and employment status) assessments, will not be performed at the centers in the united kingdom (UK).

>>NCT02249468
Difference in nutritional status between patients with mild and moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and cognitively intact healthy people in an Asian population Difference in nutritional status between patients with mild and moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and cognitively intact healthy people in an Asian population.

>>NCT00733642
The purpose of this study is to determine whether single doses of PF-04360365 is safe and well tolerated in patients with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01089283
Parkinson disease is one of the most common neurodegenerative illnesses. The disease is characterized by decrease in dopamine levels and decrease in the number of dopaminergic neurons and dopamine receptors. There are gene mutations that increase the risk for the disease. Two of those mutations are on the LRRK2 gene and on GBA gene. It is yet unknown if there is a difference between the metabolic brain function of Parkinson patients that carry one of the two mutations to Parkinson patients with no known mutation.
 Participants: diagnosed Parkinson patients that carry a gene mutation in either LRRK2 or GBA genes, Parkinson patients with no known mutation and healthy volunteers as a control group.
 The participants will go through both examinations DAT SCAN and PET CT SCAN at the Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center Nuclear Medicine Institute.
 The examination results will be given to the participants by a doctor from the neurology department.

>>NCT02362880
The main purpose of the study is to assess safety of a single dose of FBB followed by PET scan in individuals at risk of genetic Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00946530
The aim of this study is to demonstrate the efficacy of timed exposure to bright light for the treatment of disturbed nighttime sleep and daytime wake in community-dwelling dementia patients and their caregivers and to determine if there are genetic relationships between memory problems and sleep problems The aim of this study is to demonstrate the efficacy of timed exposure to bright light for the treatment of disturbed nighttime sleep and daytime wake in community-dwelling dementia patients and their caregivers and to determine if there are genetic relationships between memory problems and sleep problems.

>>NCT00731224
This study will evaluate compliance, tolerability, safety, efficacy and caregiver burden of rivastigmine patch 10 cm treatment in people with Alzheimer's disease (MMSE 10-26) initiating therapy for the first time with a cholinesterase inhibitor and in patients who were unresponsive to previous cholinesterase inhibitor treatment in a community setting.

>>NCT00901498
The purpose of this study is to assess the bioavailability of four experimental formulations relative to the current reference formulation used in the Phase 2 study.

>>NCT02138682
This investigator initiated trial is designed to measure the accuracy of diagnosis of Parkinson disease through the use of DaTscan. Currently, DaTscan is FDA approved to measure dopamine transporter densities in human tissue. This measurement can assist in distinguishing between Essential Tremor and Parkinsonian Syndromes (idiopathic Parkinson disease, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, Multi Systems Atrophy, etc). This study will compare both clinical diagnosis of symptoms and the results of the scan to the pathological diagnosis received at time of death. Patients will be registered in the Parkinson Research Institute's brain donation program, receive a clinical diagnosis of Parkinson disease, have their brain scanned using DaTscan and donate their tissue for research and autopsy purposes. The hypothesis of the study is that DaTscan will diagnosis Idiopathic Parkinson Disease as accurately as a clinician.

>>NCT01811381
Physical exercise has proven to improve memory including in the elderly. Drugs developed to stop the underlying disease processes that cause Alzheimer's disease may not improve memory on their own without efforts to stimulate brain function. One purpose of the study is to test the clinical benefits of curcumin, a safe and effective compound isolated from the turmeric root (a component of Indian curry spices), which has been found to inhibit several potential disease pathways in Alzheimer's disease. Another purpose of this study is to determine how the addition of a physical exercise program in individuals with early memory problems may affect memory function or brain imaging and blood-based markers associated with Alzheimer's disease. Physical exercise has proven to improve memory including in the elderly. Drugs developed to stop the underlying disease processes that cause Alzheimer's disease may not improve memory on their own without efforts to stimulate brain function. One purpose of the study is to test the clinical benefits of curcumin, a safe and effective compound isolated from the turmeric root (a component of Indian curry spices), which has been found to inhibit several potential disease pathways in Alzheimer's disease. Another purpose of this study is to determine how the addition of a physical exercise program in individuals with early memory problems may affect memory function or brain imaging and blood-based markers associated with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02654574
In France, about 1 million people 65 and older are diagnosed with dementia syndrome characterized by cognitive decline and impairment of functional capacity. The assessment of the level of functional autonomy is therefore an essential step in monitoring patients in Memory Clinic and can be estimated by the Lawton IADL questionnaire, assessing the patients' ability to perform daily tasks.
 In the Memory Clinic, the first estimate of the level of patient autonomy is achieved during a face-to-face interview between their primary caregiver and a nurse, using the IADL questionnaire. This assessment should be renewed every year. The IADL questionnaire is part of the information that the memories consultations shall transmit to the Alzheimer's National Bank (BNA).
 However, current practice has shown that the systematic collection is problematic in the organization of Memory Clinic. It is thus expected to collect this questionnaire by phone in order to measure changes in the level of autonomy during the disease and improve the completeness of this collection. A study is conducted with the main objective to measure the reliability of the assessment of IADL questionnaires conducted during a telephone interview with the caregiver of the patient, in comparison to the reference mode: the face-to-face interview with the caregiver.
 Materials and methods The experimental design of the study will be a randomized crossover trial (crossover), including 394 patients divided into two branches. In the first part, the collection of the IADL questionnaire will be performed according to the reference method in the consultation (face-to-face interview with the nurse), the measurement will be repeated at 1 month intervals by phone. In the second part the sequence of execution modes will be reversed. The reliability of the measurement of the level of autonomy will be studied by comparing repeated measurements based on handover modes. The correspondence between the repeated measures will also be considered in terms of patient characteristics. The feasibility of administration of the questionnaire by phone mode will be evaluated.
 Expected results The mode of administration by phone should allow to obtain a reliable measurement of the level of patient autonomy when the administration is carried out in a standardized way. The study should also identify patients and situations for which this method of administration by phone may be appropriate.

>>NCT01425957
THE STUDY WILL BE A TWO-PART RESEARCH.
 PART A and PART A extended:.
 1. To implement a "common" MRI acquisition protocol in multiple centers across Europe (Pharma-COG partners).
 2. Apply the common MRI protocol on phantoms and human subjects to characterize, compare and minimize test-retest variability across the MR sites of WP5 for all the quantitative metrics that will be later assessed on patients.
 PART B: By collecting clinical, biochemical, neuroimaging, neuropsychological and neurophysiological data in Mild Cognitive Impairment patient, we aim to:.
 1. To develop a biomarker MATRIX (made of a combination of biological secondary endpoints) which is more sensitive than the changes observed in the loss of hippocampal volume (primary endpoint) and correlate with the neuropsychological progression and conversion (clinical secondary endpoints).
 2. To develop a biomarker MATRIX (made of a combination of biological secondary endpoints) at baseline which is more predictive of the loss of hippocampal volume (primary endpoint) and neuropsychological progression (clinical secondary endpoint) in MCI patients.
 3. To harmonize the biomarker MATRIX collection and qualify multiple centres across Europe.

>>NCT00978536
In multiple sclerosis (MS) sub cortical cognitive impairments are frequently reported. Nevertheless, cortical cognitive troubles, with hippocampic memory troubles have been described. Besides inflammatory damage, early cortical and degenerative damage are well known. In neurodegenerative diseases, three biomarkers of the cerebro spinal fluid (CSF), reflecting lesional mechanisms, are measured: the beta amyloid peptide, the tau total protein and the phospho tau protein. Preliminary studies shown increased level of tau in MS. No study compare cognitive impairment and biomarkers of CSF.The aim of this study is to measure in the CSF of MS patients these three biomarkers (beta amyloid peptide, tau total and phosphotau) in order to establish correlations between a profile of biomarkers and a pattern of cognitive troubles, cortical or subcortical.The possibility to show, in MS patients with memory hippocampic troubles, a profile of biomarkers closed from the one encountered in AD, could argue in support of the degenerative hypothesis in MS and lead to discuss the interest of the use of AD treatment in MS.

>>NCT00474552
Primary: To assess the safety and tolerability of ascending multiple oral doses of SAM-315, an investigational drug, in healthy young adult and elderly subjects.
 Secondary: To assess the Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic profiles of multiple oral doses of SAM-315 in healthy young adult and elderly subjects.

>>NCT00649220
To investigate the potential to reduce concomitant antipsychotic medication use in subjects with moderate dementia of Alzheimer's type, treated with memantine.

>>NCT02020356
The primary purpose of the protocol is to demonstrate that the use of music therapy may make it possible to discontinue at least one of neuroleptic treatment in patients with AD or related symptoms complicated by behavioral disorders such as agitation and aggressiveness evaluated using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI).
 The study hypothesis is that music therapy may have a positive impact on patients with AD complicated by behavioral disorders by reducing the intensity of oppositional behaviour and aggressiveness and allowing a diminution of neuroleptic treatment. The primary purpose of the protocol is to demonstrate that the use of music therapy may make it possible to discontinue at least one of neuroleptic treatment in patients with AD or related symptoms complicated by behavioral disorders such as agitation and aggressiveness evaluated using the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI).
 The study hypothesis is that music therapy may have a positive impact on patients with AD complicated by behavioral disorders by reducing the intensity of oppositional behaviour and aggressiveness and allowing a diminution of neuroleptic treatment.

>>NCT02377713
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of KHK6640, given as a single dose in Japanese patients with Mild to Moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01066546
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of dimebon in subjects with moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of dimebon in subjects with moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01839422
This research attempts to better understand the altered and preserved memory mechanisms in Alzheimer disease, particularly to better apprehend learning implicit memory processes and give a scientific support to non-pharmalogical interventions. At the present time, it is possible to delay the emergence of the symptoms related to this disease, eventually to decrease it but not to cure it. Yet, care these patients became a crucial question and the solutions proposed to healthy aging people are not appropriate for Alzheimer patients who present specific disorders. The improvement of the quality of life of the institutionalized patients lies on a better comprehension of their disorders but also of their preserved abilities. The literature testifies of a great heterogeneity in the clinical expression of this disease, however we noticed two constants with regard to the capabilities generally announced as being preserved, on one hand, the implicit memory and on the other hand the artistic aptitudes and more particularly musical capabilities.
 Patients with Alzheimer disease present a particularly severe and early deterioration of episodic memory. Thus, at the beginning of the disease the explicit acquisition of new knowledge becomes increasingly difficult. However, some clinical observations, such as new learning of unknown songs, even with patients at a severe stage of the illness, seem to support the assumption of a preservation of some implicit learning abilities. Indeed, several studies already showed preserved implicit memory capabilities among patients with Alzheimer disease, mostly at the beginning stage of the illness: preserved effects of perceptual priming, procedural learning. Thus, we are mainly interested by the effects of exposure and the rising of a feeling of familiarity, both showing preserved implicit learning abilities, for moderate to severe Alzheimer patients. However, no study was carried out to date using the neuroimaging techniques, among Alzheimer patients at a moderated to severe stage of illness, with the main objective to identify the cerebral substrates implied in the learning of new knowledge.
 Indeed, several studies already showed preserved implicit memory capabilities among patients with Alzheimer disease, mostly were performed at the beginning stage of the illness and none of them have studied theses learning abilities for moderate to severe Alzheimer patients.
 The objective of this work is to specify, in severe form of Alzheimer disease, the cognitive mechanisms allowing the memorizing (feeling of familiarity) of new information and thus to highlight neural networks underlying this learning process (recently learned stimuli vs old stimuli). The goal is to propose a positive image of the Alzheimer patients, in understanding which cognitive mechanisms and cerebral areas allow these learning capabilities.
 20 patients Alzheimer at a moderate to severe stage, 20 patients at a mild to moderate stage of the illness and 20 healthy aging participants, are selected after a neurological interview and a neuropsychological evaluation. The whole of the included participants take part of the experimental protocol organized in two phases: - the phase of familiarization and the phase of test. The phase of familiarization consists of the repeated exposure (daily session before the MRI acquisition) of new songs and new painting until obtaining a high feeling of familiarity for each item. The phase of test is carried out in the 3T MRI camera, it comprises an anatomical (T1, T2 MRI) and a functional acquisitions. The functional acquisition corresponds to a passive listening and seeing tasks of musical and pictorial stimuli. Finally, all participants realize a debriefing phase that allows obtaining a feedback on the familiarity of stimuli presented during the functional acquisition.

>>NCT00257673
The purpose of this study is to determine in a 12-week treatment study if MEM 1003 is a safe and effective treatment for patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine in a 12-week treatment study if MEM 1003 is a safe and effective treatment for patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00606164
The main purpose of this study is find out how safe a single dose of bryostatin 1 is in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD). This study is also being done 1) to determine how effective a single dose of bryostatin 1 is in the treatment of AD, 2) to find out what happens to bryostatin 1 once it enters the body by measuring the levels of bryostatin 1 in blood and 3) to measure a substance in the blood (protein kinase C) that may help to better understand how bryostatin 1 works.

>>NCT00777361
This study is being performed in order to learn more about a new drug (possible as treatment for people with Alzheimer's Disease and other conditions with cognitive dysfunction (memory and attention problems) and how it is handled by the body by giving the drug to healthy volunteers with different genotypes.

>>NCT00810147
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of BMS-708163 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease over a treatment period of 12-weeks and the course of any potential effects during a 12-week wash-out period.

>>NCT01699711
Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), the major catechin in green tea, is postulated to modulate dual specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A) and amyloid beta precursor protein (APP) gene overexpression in the brains of Down syndrome mouse models. The clinical study is aimed at demonstrating that normalization of Dyrk1A and APP functions is a therapeutic approach to improve cognitive performance and decelerate AD (Alzheimer's disease) like progression.

>>NCT01082965
The study hypothesizes that donepezil will have a positive impact on brain blood flow deficits in subjects with memory deficits and/or mild dementia and that improvements in brain blood flow will be accompanied by improvements in memory.

>>NCT00483028
To purpose of this study is to estimate the effect of donepezil on Neuropsychological Testing (NPT) and brain Proton Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy.

>>NCT00714571
Memory deficits are common after traumatic brain injuries (TBI) and are characteristic of various forms of dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease and its common precursor mild cognitive impairment (MCI). This project intends to assess the efficacy of cognitive rehabilitation in these patient populations. We will also use neuroimaging (functional magnetic resonance imaging - fMRI) to assess changes in brain activity that occur following cognitive rehabilitation.

>>NCT00381381
This study attempts to differentiate the clinical responses of Choline Acetyltransferase and Apolipoprotein Epsilon gene polymorphism to donepezil in Alzheimer's Disease patients.

>>NCT00973518
The current study is intended to enrich and extend the database of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and healthy control (HC) MEG scans and will include patients meeting DSM-IV-TR criteria for dementia of Alzheimer's type and age- and gender-matched HC subjects meeting criteria of normal neurological function. This study will include 2 MEG and electroencephalography (EEG) scans on approximately 80 AD subjects and 80 HC subjects over approximately 30 days. All subjects will have MEG/EEG scans at baseline and 28 - 35 days after baseline. Within one day of each scan visit AD subjects will undergo 4 standard functional tests while HC subjects will undergo 2 standard functional tests.
 This study will test the following hypotheses:.
 - MEG scans of resting-state, eyes-open brain function reveal patterns of correlated activity that differ between HC subjects and subjects diagnosed with dementia of Alzheimer's type;.
 - Patterns of correlated activity measured in AD subjects correspond to other measures of disease severity such as standard functional test scores;.
 - MEG scan patterns for HC subjects are consistent across repeated measures taken over a 30 day period. The current study is intended to enrich and extend the database of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and healthy control (HC) MEG scans and will include patients meeting DSM-IV-TR criteria for dementia of Alzheimer's type and age- and gender-matched HC subjects meeting criteria of normal neurological function. This study will include 2 MEG and electroencephalography (EEG) scans on approximately 80 AD subjects and 80 HC subjects over approximately 30 days. All subjects will have MEG/EEG scans at baseline and 28 - 35 days after baseline. Within one day of each scan visit AD subjects will undergo 4 standard functional tests while HC subjects will undergo 2 standard functional tests.
 This study will test the following hypotheses:.
 - MEG scans of resting-state, eyes-open brain function reveal patterns of correlated activity that differ between HC subjects and subjects diagnosed with dementia of Alzheimer's type;.
 - Patterns of correlated activity measured in AD subjects correspond to other measures of disease severity such as standard functional test scores;.
 - MEG scan patterns for HC subjects are consistent across repeated measures taken over a 30 day period.

>>NCT00087724
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of five fixed dosage levels of FK962 or placebo for 24 weeks in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. Patient visits are every six weeks with limited efficacy measurements at week 6 and 18.

>>NCT00285077
The primary objective is to assess the long term safety/tolerability of 4 mg/day of SR57667B in comparison to placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
 A secondary objective is to describe the long term progression of Alzheimer's symptoms in patients treated by 4 mg/day of SR57667B. The primary objective is to assess the long term safety/tolerability of 4 mg/day of SR57667B in comparison to placebo in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
 A secondary objective is to describe the long term progression of Alzheimer's symptoms in patients treated by 4 mg/day of SR57667B.

>>NCT00812565
This study evaluated the effect of 6 or 12 infusions of different doses of octagam (intravenous immunoglobulin [IVIG]) 10% on the reduction of amyloid beta peptide (A) in cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and on the increase of A in blood plasma in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. This study evaluated the effect of 6 or 12 infusions of different doses of octagam (intravenous immunoglobulin [IVIG]) 10% on the reduction of amyloid beta peptide (A) in cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and on the increase of A in blood plasma in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00235716
The purpose of this study is to determine whether alpha-tocopherol, memantine (Namenda) or the combination will significantly delay clinical progression in mild to moderately demented patients with Alzheimer's disease compared to placebo. The purpose of this study is to determine whether alpha-tocopherol, memantine (Namenda) or the combination will significantly delay clinical progression in mild to moderately demented patients with Alzheimer's disease compared to placebo.

>>NCT00056329
The goal of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of the administration of vitamin E, which has been shown to delay the progression of Alzheimer's disease, in slowing the rate of cognitive/functional decline in older persons with Down syndrome. The goal of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of the administration of vitamin E, which has been shown to delay the progression of Alzheimer's disease, in slowing the rate of cognitive/functional decline in older persons with Down syndrome.

>>NCT02864303
Although saliva is not generally regarded as one of the most interesting biological fluids, the fact that it can be sampled using simple, noninvasive methods makes it an interesting alternative to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or blood for diagnostic purposes. The use of salivary diagnostics is moreover increasing these past 10 years, as shown with the abundant literature as well as various clinical trials. Saliva collection which is now well standardized has the major advantage of being simple and non-invasive. An original study had already discussed possible changes in the salivary composition in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The feasibility and the potential interest of measuring saliva concentration of the amyloid peptides was reported in an article published recently. The prospect of using saliva for early diagnosis and monitoring of AD is thus of major interest and the objective of the current trial. Although saliva is not generally regarded as one of the most interesting biological fluids, the fact that it can be sampled using simple, noninvasive methods makes it an interesting alternative to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) or blood for diagnostic purposes. The use of salivary diagnostics is moreover increasing these past 10 years, as shown with the abundant literature as well as various clinical trials. Saliva collection which is now well standardized has the major advantage of being simple and non-invasive. An original study had already discussed possible changes in the salivary composition in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The feasibility and the potential interest of measuring saliva concentration of the amyloid peptides was reported in an article published recently. The prospect of using saliva for early diagnosis and monitoring of AD is thus of major interest and the objective of the current trial.

>>NCT01798199
Virtual environments and information communication technologies (ICT) offer large perspectives in the field of assistive care and rehabilitation.
 As potentially endless, the scenarios and environment used using 3D can provide immersive social and interactive context for enjoyable and therapeutic exercises in the aging population. In addition it is also possible to use this type of serious game and scenario in very easy to use devices such as lap top or tablet.
 Social exclusion has many causes, Apathy as one of the most common behavioural disturbances found in old adults populations alters significantly social and emotional interaction.
 Even though, progress in VR has been made over the past year, the presence of such technology in daily living space is still at the embryonic stage.
 The European e-Inclusion policy stresses the importance of ICT in improving the quality of life in potentially disadvantaged groups, including older people and persons.
 The VERVE project is developing ICT tools to support the treatment of people who are at risk of social exclusion due to apathy associated with a disability.
 As people aged and autonomy worsen fear for safety and comfortable means to maintain social and Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL) status are public health issues.
 Moreover, even though older adults would like to perform some activities such as walking in the streets some are reluctant to go out of their homes as the external environment is perceived as potentially unsafe.
 Apathy, the most common behavioural symptoms in aging population is characterized by symptoms of reduced initiation and responsiveness to environmental interactions. The syndrome of Apathy takes form of diminished goal-directed behaviour, characterised by emotional blunting, loss of initiative and loss of interest. Apathy along with the nosological characteristics of dementia induces impairment in autonomy level and therefore dependence as cognitive impairments worsened.
 The importance of stimulation could be related to the concept of engagement defined as the act of being occupied or involved with an external stimulus. Engaging older person with or without Alzheimer's disease and related disorders in appropriate activities has been shown to yield beneficial HRQL effects such increasing positive emotion, improving cognition, functional autonomy and quality of life.
 Accordingly, enriched environments with high definition virtual representation of cities and activities of interest have the potentials not only to encourage patients to get active in a safe and interactive environment but also to create access to enjoyable and stimulating settings for the more severe patients.
 The VR setting from VERVE proposed personalised and populated environments available on two different but interlinked hardware platforms: 1/: standard gaming set-up in the home, nursing home or day hospital therapy group; and 2/ mobile tracked internet devices (e.g.,IPad). The system will ensure maximum openness and dissemination by using 3D Web technologies.

>>NCT00334568
Clinical features in patients with the familial early onset forms and the sporadic forms of Alzheimers disease are similar, although the course of deterioration may be different. It would be very informative to examine the drug response of patients with Alzheimers disease by a certain genotype to find evidence favouring genotype-specific drug responses that may indicate genetically defined phenotypic differences in alzheimers disease.

>>NCT00884507
This 4 arm study will assess the efficacy and safety of RO5313534 (MEM3454) versus placebo added to donepezil, in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. Following a screening period, patients will be randomized to one of 4 treatments (placebo or RO5313534 1mg, 5mg or 15mg po daily) with background therapy of donepezil (5mg or 10mg).The anticipated time on study treatment is 6 months and the target sample size is 100-500 individuals.

>>NCT02791191
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and the effect on brain tau of the study drug LY3202626 in participants with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia.

>>NCT00012831
This study evaluates the effectiveness of a nurse-managed interdisciplinary (nursing and occupational therapy) clinic serving community dwelling dementia patients and their spouse caregivers. It is grounded in a nursing self-care model that guides nurses to identify interventions that fit with the capabilities of individual patients and compensate for their specific deficits. The occupational therapy assessment uses the Allen Cognitive Levels that identify the abilities and deficits of a particular functional level so that the strategies and approaches taught to caregivers can be tailored to the specific needs of the patient. This study evaluates the effectiveness of a nurse-managed interdisciplinary (nursing and occupational therapy) clinic serving community dwelling dementia patients and their spouse caregivers. It is grounded in a nursing self-care model that guides nurses to identify interventions that fit with the capabilities of individual patients and compensate for their specific deficits. The occupational therapy assessment uses the Allen Cognitive Levels that identify the abilities and deficits of a particular functional level so that the strategies and approaches taught to caregivers can be tailored to the specific needs of the patient.

>>NCT00100334
This is a single-center, double-blind, inpatient study followed by an outpatient, placebo-controlled, multiple-IV injection evaluation of the safety and tolerability of PPI-1019 in subjects with mild-moderate Alzheimers disease (AD). The primary objective of the study is to assess the safety of multiple IV injections of PPI-1019 in subjects with mild-moderate Alzheimers disease.

>>NCT02709356
Evaluate and compare the changes in brain ketone and glucose uptake after taking two different MCT oil emulsions (60-40 oil or C8 oil) for one month, in a group of people with Alzheimer's disease and a control group. Evaluate and compare the changes in brain ketone and glucose uptake after taking two different MCT oil emulsions (60-40 oil or C8 oil) for one month, in a group of people with Alzheimer's disease and a control group.

>>NCT01313806
To determine if low level magnetic fields can help to improve memory in patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. To determine if low level magnetic fields can help to improve memory in patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02158910
The purpose of the study is for investigation and collection of Aricept safety information with a dose increase on Alzheimer's disease patients. The purpose of the study is for investigation and collection of Aricept safety information with a dose increase on Alzheimer's disease patients.

>>NCT00722046
Purpose of the study is to determine whether multiple dose administration of PF-04360365 is safe and well tolerated in patient with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00908999
This is a three year fMRI study conducted at the University of Wisconsin (UW) Hospital and the William. S. Middleton VA Hospital. This study is guided by the hypothesis that reduced fMRI activity and connectivity cortical midline structures (i.e., medial frontal and ventral posterior cingulate cortex) are physiologic abnormalities that relate strongly to the compromised insight into cognitive deficits or anosognosia, shown by a subset of individuals with amnestic MCI (aMCI) and AD. Further, the investigators hypothesize that these regional changes in fMRI activity are predictive of faster progression from aMCI to AD.

>>NCT01019421
The purpose of this study is to accept or reject the hypothesis that Lu AE58054 improves cognition and functional outcomes in patients with moderate Alzheimer's Disease, already in treatment with donepezil. The purpose of this study is to accept or reject the hypothesis that Lu AE58054 improves cognition and functional outcomes in patients with moderate Alzheimer's Disease, already in treatment with donepezil.

>>NCT01689948
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia among elderly patients. By its prevalence and its medical and social consequences, AD represents a dual challenge to public health and society. The elderly want to stay in their homes even when their lives are altered by a chronic progressive disease. Their caregivers claim in turn a support at home. But this desire is questioned because of the characteristics of the disease, e.g. the altered relational function by the cognitive impairment and the behavioural disorders associated.
 Outpatients non-drug therapies represent a potential support that adapts to patient with an AD or mixed dementia, especially in their milder forms.
 The aim of the study is to evaluate the feasibility of a weekly rehabilitation's intervention at home and its acceptability by both the patient and the caregiver.
 The study of its efficiency in terms of autonomy will be the next step. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia among elderly patients. By its prevalence and its medical and social consequences, AD represents a dual challenge to public health and society. The elderly want to stay in their homes even when their lives are altered by a chronic progressive disease. Their caregivers claim in turn a support at home. But this desire is questioned because of the characteristics of the disease, e.g. the altered relational function by the cognitive impairment and the behavioural disorders associated.
 Outpatients non-drug therapies represent a potential support that adapts to patient with an AD or mixed dementia, especially in their milder forms.
 The aim of the study is to evaluate the feasibility of a weekly rehabilitation's intervention at home and its acceptability by both the patient and the caregiver.
 The study of its efficiency in terms of autonomy will be the next step.

>>NCT00912886
The steroid pregnenolone sulfate (PREGS) may be one of the factors responsible for the memory decline related to normal aging or associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine whether plasma levels of PREGS are decreased patients with at mild to moderate AD compared with AD-free control subjects matched for gender and age and to see whether they are inversely correlated with the severity of memory deficits in AD patients. The hypothesis is that blood levels of PREGS are decreased with advanced age and with the stage of AD that would be positively correlated with memory deficits. Therefore PREGS could be considered as an early marker of the memory deficits in AD. The steroid pregnenolone sulfate (PREGS) may be one of the factors responsible for the memory decline related to normal aging or associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine whether plasma levels of PREGS are decreased patients with at mild to moderate AD compared with AD-free control subjects matched for gender and age and to see whether they are inversely correlated with the severity of memory deficits in AD patients. The hypothesis is that blood levels of PREGS are decreased with advanced age and with the stage of AD that would be positively correlated with memory deficits. Therefore PREGS could be considered as an early marker of the memory deficits in AD.

>>NCT00062569
This study will evaluate the effectiveness of a 3-week reminiscence intervention applied during bathing persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in decreasing resistiveness to care (RTC), relieving patient discomfort and improving spouse caregiver appraisals of burden, capabilities and confidence while bathing the patient. Reminiscence provides opportunities for the patient to feel good and recall pleasant memories, easily done by caregivers in a home setting. Home visits and telephone calls from trained nurses provide coaching and practice for caregivers for the preliminary phase of this study. Each couple will be enrolled in the study for approximately 9 weeks. The study will recruit 100 patient/spouse caregiver couples randomly divided into one of two groups: reminiscence with coaching or bathing support (control). Bathing support will be provided to participants in both conditions including: individualized assessment; education regarding bathing techniques for people with dementia; and individualized problem solving. In addition to the bathing support intervention, participants in the experimental group will receive a pleasant memories interview and reminiscence script with coaching for implementation. Caregivers will keep a journal of their experiences in bathing the care recipient. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of a 3-week reminiscence intervention applied during bathing persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in decreasing resistiveness to care (RTC), relieving patient discomfort and improving spouse caregiver appraisals of burden, capabilities and confidence while bathing the patient. Reminiscence provides opportunities for the patient to feel good and recall pleasant memories, easily done by caregivers in a home setting. Home visits and telephone calls from trained nurses provide coaching and practice for caregivers for the preliminary phase of this study. Each couple will be enrolled in the study for approximately 9 weeks. The study will recruit 100 patient/spouse caregiver couples randomly divided into one of two groups: reminiscence with coaching or bathing support (control). Bathing support will be provided to participants in both conditions including: individualized assessment; education regarding bathing techniques for people with dementia; and individualized problem solving. In addition to the bathing support intervention, participants in the experimental group will receive a pleasant memories interview and reminiscence script with coaching for implementation. Caregivers will keep a journal of their experiences in bathing the care recipient.

>>NCT00621010
This study is the first human exposure for the drug candidate CTS21166 in healthy male volunteers.

>>NCT02196545
The purpose of this study is to determine if a home based physical activity training program for patients with Alzheimer's dementia has effects on clinical and neurobiological parameters.

>>NCT00827034
This study will evaluate the potential drug-drug interaction of Dimebon with the FDA-recommended CYP2C9 substrate warfarin in healthy subjects. Conformance with the guidance includes general study design using a randomized, open label, single-dose warfarin, steady-state Dimebon, 2-sequence, 2-treatment, 2-period crossover design with a minimum 7-day washout period between treatments.

>>NCT00870974
Measurement of metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR5) binding capacity in the brain, may be a valuable tool in the early detection, understanding or evaluation of Parkinson disease (PD), Huntington disease (HD), Fragile X syndrome (FXS), Autism Spectrum Disorder(ASD), Alzheimer's Disease(AD) and subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
 The goal of this study is to assess [18F]F-PEB positron emission tomography (PET) imaging as a tool to detect mGluR5 density in the brain of PD, HD, FXS ASD, AD and MCI research participants and similarly aged healthy subjects. Measurement of metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR5) binding capacity in the brain, may be a valuable tool in the early detection, understanding or evaluation of Parkinson disease (PD), Huntington disease (HD), Fragile X syndrome (FXS), Autism Spectrum Disorder(ASD), Alzheimer's Disease(AD) and subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).
 The goal of this study is to assess [18F]F-PEB positron emission tomography (PET) imaging as a tool to detect mGluR5 density in the brain of PD, HD, FXS ASD, AD and MCI research participants and similarly aged healthy subjects.

>>NCT01538212
This evaluation of the efficacy and safety of AXONA will be a chart review carried out at 16 practices in which AXONA has been prescribed for the treatment of patients with mild-to-moderate AD. Efficacy of AXONA will be assessed by comparison of patient status before and after initiation of treatment. This evaluation of the efficacy and safety of AXONA will be a chart review carried out at 16 practices in which AXONA has been prescribed for the treatment of patients with mild-to-moderate AD. Efficacy of AXONA will be assessed by comparison of patient status before and after initiation of treatment.

>>NCT01592552
The purpose of this research project is to collect and store blood samples and clinical data. Researchers can then use the stored samples in future studies. Through such studies, they hope to find new ways to detect, treat and maybe even prevent or cure health problems. The purpose of this research project is to collect and store blood samples and clinical data. Researchers can then use the stored samples in future studies. Through such studies, they hope to find new ways to detect, treat and maybe even prevent or cure health problems.

>>NCT00007189
The purpose of this trial is to test the ability of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications naproxen and celecoxib to delay or prevent the onset of AD and age-related cognitive decline. The purpose of this trial is to test the ability of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications naproxen and celecoxib to delay or prevent the onset of AD and age-related cognitive decline.

>>NCT01399125
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Exelon patch in patients with probable AD (MMSE 10-20), in order to support a planned regulatory submission and registration of Exelon transdermal patch in China. The study is designed to confirm the non-inferiority of the efficacy of Exelon patch (target 10 cm patch size) versus Exelon capsules (target 6.0 mg bid dose) on cognition, using the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog).

>>NCT01772095
In 1906, Dr. Alois Alzheimer first described the disease that later took his name. Today, 100 years later, 24 million people worldwide suffer from Alzheimer's disease or other dementias.
 The term 'dementia' is clinical and is used to describe brain disorders that cause decline in mental functions, memory first and then speech, judging and overall behavior. Alzheimer's disease is by far the most common form of dementia, followed by vascular dementia, dementia with Lewy, the frontotemporal dementias etc.
 In Greece there are 141000 patients with dementia. With increasing life expectancy, the figures are expected to increase dramatically in the future.
 Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, as well as 50-60% of patients with dementia suffer from this disease. The second most common type of dementia is vascular, ie that associated with cerebrovascular disease and is the 15-30% of all dementia cases and is most common between the ages of 60-70 years and is more common in men than women. It is estimated that 5% to 8% of people over 65 suffer from dementia, while in industrialized countries ranges at the following levels :15-25% over 85 and 32% over 90 years.
 Dementia is characterized by a slow onset and progressive course. The syndrome includes disorders in general intelligence, learning and memory, problem solving, perception, judgment, executive function, language and synergy of movement but without impairment of consciousness.
 Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder with distinct clinical and histopathological features, although with variations from person to person.
 In its early stages it is sometimes difficult to diagnose cognitive impairment from normal aging of the brain. With the passage of time, the continuous decline in recent memory, fluency, ability for spatial orientation ultimately restricts the autonomy regarding basic activities of daily life such as managing finances. The anxiety and depression complicate diagnosis in early stages but gradually decline with loss of sensitivity. Intermediate stages of the disease require increasingly supervision in daily self-care activities, such as personal hygiene and clothing. In the advanced stages are usually essential nursing care in institutional context.
 The severity of symptoms of the disease varies and is determined by premorbid factors such as education, gender, cultural background. Epidemiological studies have shown as protective factors against the onset of dementia, higher education, taking estrogen and anti-inflammatory drugs. On the other hand, age, family history of dementia, head injury, hypertension and Down syndrome are risk factors for developing the disease. Finally, some genetic factors appear to be protective and other pressures to the disease. In 1906, Dr. Alois Alzheimer first described the disease that later took his name. Today, 100 years later, 24 million people worldwide suffer from Alzheimer's disease or other dementias.
 The term 'dementia' is clinical and is used to describe brain disorders that cause decline in mental functions, memory first and then speech, judging and overall behavior. Alzheimer's disease is by far the most common form of dementia, followed by vascular dementia, dementia with Lewy, the frontotemporal dementias etc.
 In Greece there are 141000 patients with dementia. With increasing life expectancy, the figures are expected to increase dramatically in the future.
 Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, as well as 50-60% of patients with dementia suffer from this disease. The second most common type of dementia is vascular, ie that associated with cerebrovascular disease and is the 15-30% of all dementia cases and is most common between the ages of 60-70 years and is more common in men than women. It is estimated that 5% to 8% of people over 65 suffer from dementia, while in industrialized countries ranges at the following levels :15-25% over 85 and 32% over 90 years.
 Dementia is characterized by a slow onset and progressive course. The syndrome includes disorders in general intelligence, learning and memory, problem solving, perception, judgment, executive function, language and synergy of movement but without impairment of consciousness.
 Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder with distinct clinical and histopathological features, although with variations from person to person.
 In its early stages it is sometimes difficult to diagnose cognitive impairment from normal aging of the brain. With the passage of time, the continuous decline in recent memory, fluency, ability for spatial orientation ultimately restricts the autonomy regarding basic activities of daily life such as managing finances. The anxiety and depression complicate diagnosis in early stages but gradually decline with loss of sensitivity. Intermediate stages of the disease require increasingly supervision in daily self-care activities, such as personal hygiene and clothing. In the advanced stages are usually essential nursing care in institutional context.
 The severity of symptoms of the disease varies and is determined by premorbid factors such as education, gender, cultural background. Epidemiological studies have shown as protective factors against the onset of dementia, higher education, taking estrogen and anti-inflammatory drugs. On the other hand, age, family history of dementia, head injury, hypertension and Down syndrome are risk factors for developing the disease. Finally, some genetic factors appear to be protective and other pressures to the disease.

>>NCT01890343
Study 18F-AV-45-010 is designed to evaluate the cerebral uptake of florbetapir 18F as measured by PET imaging in frontotemporal disorder (FTD) in comparison to cognitively normal volunteers and subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT02204969
The thermal therapy combined with magnetic fields and ozone has a direct effect on patients with dementia and Alzheimer's with a regression of more than 60% of them The thermal therapy combined with magnetic fields and ozone has a direct effect on patients with dementia and Alzheimer's with a regression of more than 60% of them.

>>NCT00481520
The primary purpose of the study is to assess whether SAM-531, an investigational drug, is safe and well tolerated, compared with placebo (a medically inactive substance), in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02178124
Study of the Safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics with multiple doses of donepezil patch in healthy male subjects.

>>NCT02782975
The primary objectives of this study are to evaluate the absolute bioavailability of a single, fixed sub-cutaneous (SC) dose of aducanumab compared with a single, weight-based intra-venous (IV) dose in healthy participants and to characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) profile of aducanumab. The secondary objectives are to evaluate the safety and tolerability of aducanumab administered via SC and IV routes in healthy participants and to characterize additional PK parameters of a single, fixed SC dose of aducanumab and a weight-based IV dose in healthy participants.

>>NCT00499200
The study will include a preliminary pharmacokinetics (PK) / safety / tolerability evaluation in healthy elderly subjects followed by the Receptor Occupancy (RO) evaluations in healthy elderly subjects and in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) subjects.

>>NCT01348737
The purpose of the study is to assess the safety, tolerability and blood concentration of AZD3839 following oral administration of single doses in healthy men and women of non-childbearing potential.

>>NCT01993628
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Lewy body's dementia (LBD) are two frequent neurodegenerative pathologies. They differ in their expression, their evolution but share same features which make their diagnosis uneasy.
 Constructional apraxia has been described in both disease.The underlying mechanisms have been less studied and could be different in AD and LBD.
 The definition of the constructional apraxia is purely descriptive and few models are inconclusive.
 It is admitted that drawing tasks involve visuo-perceptive and visuo-spatial abilities, executive functions and working memory as well as purely "constructive" skills.
 Regarding to different studies, visuo-perceptive abilities are more severely impaired in LBD than in AD and are considered as an early onset sign of the disease.
 Executive functions deficits are documented in AD and LDB and could contribute to the drawing impairment.
 It is possible to compensate the planning disorders in giving patient the best strategy to use.
 If drawing impairment persists, they should result of others mechanisms like visuo-perception, visuo-spatial or constructive deficits.
 The investigators suggest that giving the best planning strategy will help more AD patients who are supposed to fail in raison of an executive impairment, than the LDB group who is supposed to present visuo-perceptive deficits. An MRI will be proposed to study the cerebral areas involved in constructional apraxia.

>>NCT00633841
The purpose of this study is to assess the tolerability and safety of repeated subcutaneous injection of a single dose of AFFITOPE AD02 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the tolerability and safety of repeated subcutaneous injection of a single dose of AFFITOPE AD02 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01409564
The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of cilostazol augmentation in mild to moderate Alzheimer disease patients with subcortical white matter hyperintensities (WMHI) treated by donepezil.
 Dementia is the most disabling disease in the old age. The prevalence of dementia is 5-10% of the elders. AchEIs (donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine) are used to treat mild to moderate dementia but these drugs only relate to symptomatic improvement and the response rates are less than 30%.
 Cilostazol is a cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitor (PDE3I) and used as antiplatelet agent in subcortical vascular disease (WMHI). And it upregulates phosphorylation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate-pathway response element binding protein (CREB) which plays a crucial role in memory enhancement and synaptic plasticity related to neurodegeneration prevention.
 The investigators will try cilostazol augmentation in dementia patients with WMHI receiving donepezil to see the addictive effects of cilostazol using cognitive tasks and PET imaging.

>>NCT01527916
This is an efficacy and safety study evaluating a new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. This is an efficacy and safety study evaluating a new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00916617
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of bapineuzumab when administered by subcutaneous injection. The study is open only to subjects who participated in the preceding double-blind study (3133L1-2203 US). Subjects will receive weekly injections of bapineuzumab for 3 years (156 doses). One dosage level will be included: 5 mg/week. All subjects will receive active treatment (bapineuzumab) and no subjects will receive placebo.

>>NCT01550718
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasing exponentially, with a projected quadrupling of cases by the mid 21st century. Individuals with AD are at increased risk for a host of medical and psychiatric conditions and evidence is accumulating supporting the efficacy and effectiveness of psychosocial interventions for improving their mood, function, health and quality of life. Such interventions are likely to be most effective when they are implemented during the early stages of dementia, when individuals and their family members are coping with the initial diagnosis and associated changes in abilities and activities. Recent randomized clinical trials by the Principal Investigator and colleagues have developed two non-pharmacologic interventions to reduce the social, psychological, physical and behavioral impact of dementia. This investigation is focused on facilitating their translation into ongoing community-based programs, such as those provided by Alzheimer's Association chapters, senior centers, retirement homes and other health care providers. The core content of each intervention has been retained in order to maintain or improve their efficacy and each has been modified to a 4-week group format to increase efficiency of delivery. These modified interventions (ESML-Social and ESML-Ex) will be compared to each other and to a usual care (UC) control group. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 1-month post treatment and 4 month follow-up. Primary outcomes at the 1-month assessment include: social activity participation, family communication, physical activity participation and physical function. Primary outcomes at 4-month follow up include overall quality of life and depression. It is hypothesized that ESML-Ex and ESML-Social both will have greater improvements than UC. It is hypothesized that ESML-Social will have greater improvements in social participation and family communication than ESML-Ex and UC. It is hypothesized that ESML-Ex will have greater improvements in physical activity participation and physical functioning than ESML-Social and UC. If successful, these 4-week programs may be developed into "modules" that can be incorporated into programming for individuals with early stage dementia in a variety of community settings.

>>NCT00006399
The goal of this study is to examine whether the administration of estrogen to post-menopausal women and women with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease will enhance their memory and their capacity for learning. The goal of this study is to examine whether the administration of estrogen to post-menopausal women and women with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease will enhance their memory and their capacity for learning.

>>NCT02190084
Alzheimer's Dementia (AD) is a major public health problem. Apathy, a profound loss of motivation, is seen in majority of patients with AD. Dysfunction of the front of the brain and loss of dopamine, a type of neurochemical, in this part of brain results in apathy. Presence of apathy is linked to deficits in planning sequential tasks such as keeping a routine. Patients with apathy have poor physical function and their caregivers experience extra burden. Unfortunately there are no good medications to treat apathy. FDA has approved the use of brain stimulation by a magnet known as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), for treatment of depression. rTMS increases dopamine when applied to frontal lobe of brain so we propose that rTMS would be a good treatment option for apathy in AD. Study hypotheses include that rTMS to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) will improve apathy and executive function better than sham treatment in those with AD. Alzheimer's Dementia (AD) is a major public health problem. Apathy, a profound loss of motivation, is seen in majority of patients with AD. Dysfunction of the front of the brain and loss of dopamine, a type of neurochemical, in this part of brain results in apathy. Presence of apathy is linked to deficits in planning sequential tasks such as keeping a routine. Patients with apathy have poor physical function and their caregivers experience extra burden. Unfortunately there are no good medications to treat apathy. FDA has approved the use of brain stimulation by a magnet known as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), for treatment of depression. rTMS increases dopamine when applied to frontal lobe of brain so we propose that rTMS would be a good treatment option for apathy in AD. Study hypotheses include that rTMS to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) will improve apathy and executive function better than sham treatment in those with AD.

>>NCT01035138
The primary objective of the original study was to assess the safety of semagacestat in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients during 24 months of open-label treatment. Baseline for the efficacy measures is defined as the baseline for feeder studies LFAN (NCT00594568) and LFBC (NCT00762411). For all safety analyses (adverse events), baseline for patients will be week 0 of this study (LFBF).
 Preliminary results from LFAN and LFBC showed semagacestat did not slow disease progression and was associated with worsening of clinical measures of cognition and the ability to perform activities of daily living. Study drug was stopped in all studies. Studies LFAN, LFBC and LFBF have been amended to continue collecting safety data, including cognitive scores, for at least seven months. The CT-Registry will reflect results of analyses from the original protocol in addition to those from the amended protocol. Very few participants from LFBC rolled over into LFBF (N = 9). Due to insufficient sample size, the data for LFBC participants who rolled into LFBF were not analyzed.

>>NCT01264614
This study will evaluate the effects of low-intensity strengthening exercise on the brain (thinking and processing speed) for patients with early dementia, compared with normative older adults. Participants will engage in 3 months of exercise 3-5 times per week using a chair and small weights. It is hypothesized that there will be a significant improvement in brain function. This study will evaluate the effects of low-intensity strengthening exercise on the brain (thinking and processing speed) for patients with early dementia, compared with normative older adults. Participants will engage in 3 months of exercise 3-5 times per week using a chair and small weights. It is hypothesized that there will be a significant improvement in brain function.

>>NCT00448799
The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I AV83 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect -amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects. The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I AV83 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect -amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects.

>>NCT01078168
The trials investigates the changes of cerebral spinal fluid APPS levels under oral therapy with acitretin 30mg daily in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.The present study aims to demonstrate an enhancement of the -secretase activity by acitretin as measured by increased CSF APPS levels in human AD. Second, the safety and tolerability of acitretin in AD patients should be proven.

>>NCT01780974
The primary aim of the pilot study is to provide data that can be used to better determine sample size for the design of a larger clinical trial. The pilot will evaluate the effectiveness of Lipoic Acid (LA) plus Omega-3 fatty acids (Omega-3) on preventing Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The investigators will also collect data to evaluate recruitment rate, safety and compliance over the 12 month study period. The primary aim of the pilot study is to provide data that can be used to better determine sample size for the design of a larger clinical trial. The pilot will evaluate the effectiveness of Lipoic Acid (LA) plus Omega-3 fatty acids (Omega-3) on preventing Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The investigators will also collect data to evaluate recruitment rate, safety and compliance over the 12 month study period.

>>NCT02783573
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the study drug known as LY3314814 in participants with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia.

>>NCT02854917
This study is a retrospective review of the data collected in a previously completed randomized, controlled trial (RCT) entitled "Memantine and Comprehensive, Individualized, Patient Centered Management of Alzheimer's Disease: A Randomized Controlled Trial" (NCT00120874). As part of the previously completed RCT, participants with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) were randomly placed into one of two groups: memantine or memantine plus an individualized management program consisting of home visits, educational sessions for caregivers and a caregiver support group. Participants received the study intervention for 28 weeks; study follow-up lasted for 52 weeks.
 The collected data from the existing study books from the 28 week treatment portion of the RCT will be carefully examined with respect to each of the research questions for the present retrospective study.

>>NCT01208675
The present study aims at combining biochemical methods with various types of imaging techniques to identify the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The main interest is to find markers associated with the very early steps in the pathology of this disease. The investigators shall thus screen for i) molecules in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma specific for AD and ii) brain imaging markers (e.g. MRI and PET) that correlate to detailed clinical assessments.
 Biomarkers of interest would then be useful to:.
 1. Enable accurate detection of the disease early on. Such biomarkers need to specifically reflect the very early pathophysiology of AD and distinguish it from disorders with similar symptomatology, such as other types of dementia and major depression. The sensitivity and specificity of these biomarkers in combination with clinical assessment should be of at least 90%.
 2. Enable prediction of the course of events of the disease, such as the disease rate in individual patients. Biomarkers that can predict the pattern of future symptoms will be extremely valuable.
 3. Allow monitoring of early effects of new disease-modifying therapies (so-called surrogate biomarkers). Currently clinical therapeutic trials for AD require large patient groups together with long-term treatment. Both size of the groups and treatment time will be reduced with the help of surrogate biomarkers.
 4. Study the pathogenesis of the disease. Biomarkers can be used to investigate in detail early alterations in AD patients. For instance, changes in the levels of certain molecules in CSF together with genetic predisposition could then be correlated to clinical signs and changes detectable by brain imaging. This can lead to identification of new therapeutic targets that could easily be monitored in future trials. The present study aims at combining biochemical methods with various types of imaging techniques to identify the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The main interest is to find markers associated with the very early steps in the pathology of this disease. The investigators shall thus screen for i) molecules in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and plasma specific for AD and ii) brain imaging markers (e.g. MRI and PET) that correlate to detailed clinical assessments.
 Biomarkers of interest would then be useful to:.
 1. Enable accurate detection of the disease early on. Such biomarkers need to specifically reflect the very early pathophysiology of AD and distinguish it from disorders with similar symptomatology, such as other types of dementia and major depression. The sensitivity and specificity of these biomarkers in combination with clinical assessment should be of at least 90%.
 2. Enable prediction of the course of events of the disease, such as the disease rate in individual patients. Biomarkers that can predict the pattern of future symptoms will be extremely valuable.
 3. Allow monitoring of early effects of new disease-modifying therapies (so-called surrogate biomarkers). Currently clinical therapeutic trials for AD require large patient groups together with long-term treatment. Both size of the groups and treatment time will be reduced with the help of surrogate biomarkers.
 4. Study the pathogenesis of the disease. Biomarkers can be used to investigate in detail early alterations in AD patients. For instance, changes in the levels of certain molecules in CSF together with genetic predisposition could then be correlated to clinical signs and changes detectable by brain imaging. This can lead to identification of new therapeutic targets that could easily be monitored in future trials.

>>NCT00751907
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the hypothesis that in middle-aged, asymptomatic, adult children of persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD), atorvastatin therapy will beneficially affect mechanisms thought to contribute to AD risk by improving blood flow in the brain, improving cerebral perfusion, increasing brain activity patterns and improving blood vessel function. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the hypothesis that in middle-aged, asymptomatic, adult children of persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD), atorvastatin therapy will beneficially affect mechanisms thought to contribute to AD risk by improving blood flow in the brain, improving cerebral perfusion, increasing brain activity patterns and improving blood vessel function.

>>NCT02036645
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, drug levels and effects on the body of 1 or 3 injections of MEDI1814, in people with mild to moderate Alzhiemer's Disease or healthy elderly people.

>>NCT00165750
This study investigate the relationship between regional brain volume measured by MRI and donepezil treatment response in patients with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02103673
The population of dementia is increasing rapidly. Cognitive impairment as well as Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) add heavy burdens to caregiver. NMDA activation is critical for learning and memory. Individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have fewer NMDA receptors in the frontal cortex and hippocampus than controls. This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled drug trial. All patients will be allocated randomly to two groups: (1) NMDA enhancer: DAOIB (starting dosage: 250-500 mg/day), (2) placebo, for 6 weeks. The investigators hypothesize that DAOIB may yield better efficacy than placebo for cognitive function and clinical symptoms in patients with BPSD.

>>NCT00151502
The purpose of this study is to find out if atovastatin, when taken with a cholinesterase inhibitor, is effective for treating Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01746706
Reliable diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) at the predementia stage is currently considered to be a priority for research, as disease modifying therapies are being evaluated. Many studies focus on the functional and morphological assessment of the hippocampal formation. However, neurofibrillary tangles, associated with cognitive deficits, initially affect the anterior subhippocampal cortex (transentorhinal, entorhinal and perirhinal cortex) before reaching the hippocampus. Studies from our group have tried to investigate if the assessment of subhippocampal regions using cognitive tools and neuroimaging techniques could contribute to the diagnosis of AD at a very early stage.
 In a previous project, the investigators included 40 patients with single domain amnestic MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment), known to be at high risk for AD and demonstrated that aMCI patients with a profile of subhippocampal dysfunction (impaired performance on a visual recognition memory task) display other clinical as well as imaging profiles of patients with early AD using MRI and SPECT. Longitudinal follow-up data in these patients is currently under way. Preliminary data indicates that evaluating the subhippocampal region using visual recognition tasks is highly predictive of AD over 6 years.
 The aim of this project is to obtain additional diagnostic data using a PET amyloid tracer (Florbetapir F18 AV45 F18), an in-vivo marker of one of the neuropathological lesions that define AD, of in order to enhance diagnostic accuracy AD in these patients. This approach will validate the hypothesis as to whether the assessment of subhippocampal dysfunction can contribute to the early diagnosis of AD.

>>NCT00229333
The goal of the present study is to compare the effectiveness of the active (S)-enantiomer of citalopram, escitalopram with placebo in the treatment of patients with depressive syndrome complicating Alzheimers dementia (AD), vascular dementia (VD) or mixed dementia (MD), for 8 weeks of double-blind treatment.

>>NCT01852110
The purpose of this multicenter trial is to assess the efficacy and safety of MK-7622 compared with placebo as adjunctive therapy to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) for the symptomatic treatment of participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The trial consists of two stages: Stage 1 and Stage 2. Participants in Stage 1 will be randomized to receive either placebo or MK-7622 45 mg once daily. In Stage 2, participants will be randomized to receive either placebo or MK-7622 5, 15 or 45 mg once daily. Participants will be enrolled in only one stage. Interim analyses will be performed in both Stage 1 and Stage 2 to determine whether the trial should continue. Duration of each stage is approximately 26 weeks; all participants receive placebo at some time during the trial. The primary study hypotheses are the following: Stage 1 - MK-7622 45 mg once daily is superior to placebo in improving cognition in participants with mild to moderate AD as assessed by mean change from baseline in the 11-item Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog11) at Week 12; Stage 2 - At least one of the top two doses of MK-7622 (15 mg once daily, 45 mg once daily) is superior to placebo in improving cognition in participants with mild to moderate AD as assessed by mean change from baseline in ADAS-Cog11 at Week 12. The purpose of this multicenter trial is to assess the efficacy and safety of MK-7622 compared with placebo as adjunctive therapy to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) for the symptomatic treatment of participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The trial consists of two stages: Stage 1 and Stage 2. Participants in Stage 1 will be randomized to receive either placebo or MK-7622 45 mg once daily. In Stage 2, participants will be randomized to receive either placebo or MK-7622 5, 15 or 45 mg once daily. Participants will be enrolled in only one stage. Interim analyses will be performed in both Stage 1 and Stage 2 to determine whether the trial should continue. Duration of each stage is approximately 26 weeks; all participants receive placebo at some time during the trial. The primary study hypotheses are the following: Stage 1 - MK-7622 45 mg once daily is superior to placebo in improving cognition in participants with mild to moderate AD as assessed by mean change from baseline in the 11-item Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog11) at Week 12; Stage 2 - At least one of the top two doses of MK-7622 (15 mg once daily, 45 mg once daily) is superior to placebo in improving cognition in participants with mild to moderate AD as assessed by mean change from baseline in ADAS-Cog11 at Week 12.

>>NCT01465360
The purpose of this study is to assess the performance of AclarusDx, an investigational blood test detecting gene expression information and intended to help physicians in making an Alzheimer's Disease diagnosis in patients having memory impairments. The purpose of this study is to assess the performance of AclarusDx, an investigational blood test detecting gene expression information and intended to help physicians in making an Alzheimer's Disease diagnosis in patients having memory impairments.

>>NCT01887899
The aim of this study is to investigate whether the anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over the primary motor cortex (M1) in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) leads to an increase in cortical plasticity (change in motor evoked potentials (MEP) in mV).

>>NCT00501111
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that AZD3480 improves cognition in patients with mild or moderate Alzheimer's disease, to assess the safety and tolerability of ZAD3480 and to define the optimal dose(s) to be used in future trials.

>>NCT00329706
A brain PET scan is recognized as "reasonable and necessary" for some patients with "a recently established diagnosis of dementia" (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Decision Memo CAG-00088R, 2004) but evidence is less clear for patients having less severe cognitive problems. A substantial portion of such patients will develop Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, which affect millions of people in the U.S., costing us over $100 billion annually. This project employs a prospective randomized protocol to determine whether PET scanning can help distinguish those patients with early Alzheimer's changes in their brains from those having other causes of cognitive impairment more accurately than is done with current clinical practices alone and lead to earlier, more effective therapies which extend patients' abilities to think and function independently. A brain PET scan is recognized as "reasonable and necessary" for some patients with "a recently established diagnosis of dementia" (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Decision Memo CAG-00088R, 2004) but evidence is less clear for patients having less severe cognitive problems. A substantial portion of such patients will develop Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia, which affect millions of people in the U.S., costing us over $100 billion annually. This project employs a prospective randomized protocol to determine whether PET scanning can help distinguish those patients with early Alzheimer's changes in their brains from those having other causes of cognitive impairment more accurately than is done with current clinical practices alone and lead to earlier, more effective therapies which extend patients' abilities to think and function independently.

>>NCT01374438
This study will evaluate the effect of 150 mg MSDC-0160 taken daily for 90 days compared to the effect of placebo on changes in brain glucose utilization using FDG-PET and cognition in older persons with mild Alzheimer's disease. Safety and tolerability of MSDC-0160 in this population will also be studied. These results will be used to design larger studies of MSDC-0160 in persons with mild Alzheimer's disease. This study will evaluate the effect of 150 mg MSDC-0160 taken daily for 90 days compared to the effect of placebo on changes in brain glucose utilization using FDG-PET and cognition in older persons with mild Alzheimer's disease. Safety and tolerability of MSDC-0160 in this population will also be studied. These results will be used to design larger studies of MSDC-0160 in persons with mild Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00937352
The purpose of this study is to assess the long-term safety and tolerability of Bapineuzumab (AAB-001, ELN115727) in subjects with Alzheimer's disease who participated in study ELN115727-301 or study ELN115727-302.

>>NCT00216502
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of galantamine in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of galantamine in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01605448
The investigators are investigating the benefits of a mind/body intervention, Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction, for adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment. The investigators are investigating the benefits of a mind/body intervention, Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction, for adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment.

>>NCT00299988
The overall goal of this double-blind Phase II study is to evaluate the safety, efficacy and biological mechanisms of action of Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIg) in the treatment of mild to moderate stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). IVIg contains antibodies against the amyloid beta protein that is the central component of the AD senile plaque. It is hypothesized that IVIg treatment will reduce the levels of beta amyloid in the brain and improve cognitive abilities relative to placebo. A total of 24 patients with mild to moderate AD capable of giving informed consent will be randomly assigned to receive either IVIg (16 patients)or saline placebo (8 patients) for six months. This study includes comparison of four dosing regimens of IVIg. Cognitive, behavioral and functional measures will be collected at baseline, three months and six months of treatment. Plasma samples will be collected before and after infusions. Subjects will undergo a lumbar puncture before and after the six months of treatment for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker analyses. In addition, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging substudies will be performed at two time points during the study. Following the initial 6 month placebo-controlled period, all participants have the opportunity to receive IVIg for an additional 12 month period in an extension study. The overall goal of this double-blind Phase II study is to evaluate the safety, efficacy and biological mechanisms of action of Intravenous Immunoglobulin (IVIg) in the treatment of mild to moderate stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). IVIg contains antibodies against the amyloid beta protein that is the central component of the AD senile plaque. It is hypothesized that IVIg treatment will reduce the levels of beta amyloid in the brain and improve cognitive abilities relative to placebo. A total of 24 patients with mild to moderate AD capable of giving informed consent will be randomly assigned to receive either IVIg (16 patients)or saline placebo (8 patients) for six months. This study includes comparison of four dosing regimens of IVIg. Cognitive, behavioral and functional measures will be collected at baseline, three months and six months of treatment. Plasma samples will be collected before and after infusions. Subjects will undergo a lumbar puncture before and after the six months of treatment for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker analyses. In addition, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging substudies will be performed at two time points during the study. Following the initial 6 month placebo-controlled period, all participants have the opportunity to receive IVIg for an additional 12 month period in an extension study.

>>NCT02263287
Dementia with Lewy body (DLB) is the second most common neurodegenerative dementia in autopsy series. However, DLB represents a small proportion of the clinical diagnoses in epidemiology registries. Indeed Alzheimer disease (AD) and DLB are often concomitant, they share many symptoms and only a small weight is given to non-motor symptoms in DLB diagnosis. DLB is at the end of a pathological spectrum overlapping with AD, explaining the poor diagnostic value of both diagnostic criteria. To date there is still a need for a tool able to discriminate patients with pure DLB from those expressing common signs with both AD and DLB and those with pure AD. The purpose of this study is to validate a semi quantitative scale designed to reflect the Lewy Bodies burden in patients with mild to moderate cognitive decline. The investigators hypothesized that the score obtained may differentiate between AD, DLB and patients fulfilling clinical criteria for both DLB an AD. This score could also be correlated with dopaminergic depletion assessed with [18F]fluorodopa PET/computed tomography and/or with potential biomarkers of ADD measured in cerebrospinal fluid. This clinical validation is a preliminary work preceding further studies correlating the LeSCoD score with functional imaging features, prognosis and therapeutic response. Thus, the expected outcomes involve an improvement in demented patients' care, as well as a better patient selection for further therapeutic studies.

>>NCT01760005
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability, biomarker and cognitive efficacy of gantenerumab and solanezumab in subjects who are known to have an Alzheimer's disease-causing mutation by determining if treatment with the study drug improves cognitive outcomes and disease-related biomarkers. The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability, biomarker and cognitive efficacy of gantenerumab and solanezumab in subjects who are known to have an Alzheimer's disease-causing mutation by determining if treatment with the study drug improves cognitive outcomes and disease-related biomarkers.

>>NCT01565330
This study will test two different doses of florbetapir F 18 to determine which dose is best to image amyloid plaques in the brains of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) patients using a positron emission tomography (PET) scanner.

>>NCT01998841
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, adaptive study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of crenezumab versus placebo in individuals who carry the PSEN1 E280A autosomal-dominant mutation and do not meet the criteria for mild cognitive impairment due to AD or dementia due to AD and are, thus, in a preclinical phase of AD. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to receive either crenezumab or placebo subcutaneously every 2 weeks for 260 weeks. The study also includes a cohort of PSEN1 E280A mutation noncarriers who will be dosed with placebo only.

>>NCT01049555
Neuropsychiatric symptoms form part of the clinical picture of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other dementias. Irrespective of the severity of the disease, the most frequently encountered symptom is apathy. Apathy is increasingly diagnosed in patients with neurological and psychiatric conditions. Apathy is a disorder of motivation, defined as "the direction, intensity and persistence of goal-directed behaviour". Most of the current descriptions acknowledge this point and consider apathy in terms of a lack of goal-directed behaviour, cognition or emotion. The classical neuropsychiatric symptom assessments are subjective structured interview-based, using input from the caregiver and/or the patient. New technologies are likely to provide us with a more objective measure. An example is ambulatory actigraphy, consisting of a piezoelectric accelerometer designed to record arm movement in three dimensions.
 The aim of the present study is to assess using actigraphy and video recording signal, AD patients with (n = 15) and without (n = 15) apathy and control subjects (n = 5) during an activity of daily living scenario .

>>NCT01730430
To establish a cutoff value using a ratio of CSF tau to A42 (tau/A42) for distinguishing patients wth mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) from health elderly control subjects. The investigators hypothesize that a cutoff can be found that has at least 80% sensitivity and 60% specificity. To establish a cutoff value using a ratio of CSF tau to A42 (tau/A42) for distinguishing patients wth mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) from health elderly control subjects. The investigators hypothesize that a cutoff can be found that has at least 80% sensitivity and 60% specificity.

>>NCT02444637
Rivastigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor which has been approved by FDA & HSA, is authorized for use in the treatment of mild to moderate dementia of the Alzheimer's type.
 In this trial, the investigators will be studying the effectiveness of Rivastigmine in subjects with AD and cerebrovascular disease.

>>NCT01322568
Background:.
 - Researchers are interested in studying the environmental and genetic factors that play a role in health and living conditions as people age. Since 2002, the U.S. National Institute on Aging and the Icelandic Heart Association Research Institute have been conducting a long-term study known as the Research in Aging project to collect personal data and samples from Icelandic men and women in order to study risk factors related to disease and disability in old age. Researchers plan to initiate a second stage of the study.
 Objectives:.
 - To collect additional personal information, medical records and blood samples from individuals who have previously provided materials for the Research in Aging Project in Iceland.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals who have previously participated in the Research in Aging project in association with the U.S. National Institute on Aging and the Icelandic Heart Association Research Institute.
 Design:.
 - Participants will have a physical examination with imaging analysis procedures and hearing and eye tests, provide information on health and diet and provide a 100-ml blood sample for testing.
 - Participants will also provide consent for researchers to consult data and samples collected during the first stage of the Research on Aging project. Background:.
 - Researchers are interested in studying the environmental and genetic factors that play a role in health and living conditions as people age. Since 2002, the U.S. National Institute on Aging and the Icelandic Heart Association Research Institute have been conducting a long-term study known as the Research in Aging project to collect personal data and samples from Icelandic men and women in order to study risk factors related to disease and disability in old age. Researchers plan to initiate a second stage of the study.
 Objectives:.
 - To collect additional personal information, medical records and blood samples from individuals who have previously provided materials for the Research in Aging Project in Iceland.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals who have previously participated in the Research in Aging project in association with the U.S. National Institute on Aging and the Icelandic Heart Association Research Institute.
 Design:.
 - Participants will have a physical examination with imaging analysis procedures and hearing and eye tests, provide information on health and diet and provide a 100-ml blood sample for testing.
 - Participants will also provide consent for researchers to consult data and samples collected during the first stage of the Research on Aging project.

>>NCT00692588
Objectives:.
 To study the changes in brain structure and function using MRI scans in patients treated for Alzheimer's disease.
 Methods:.
 A pilot study of treating Alzheimer's disease with antibiotics showed some promise that this treatment could delay the deterioration of the mind with this disease. This study is being replicated on a larger scale, providing a more definitive answer to this question. In addition to looking at changes of the mind (through cognitive tests), we would like to use MRI scans in these patients before and after treatment to study the structural changes and the chemical changes in the brain. This would provide a non-invasive look at the bran processes that protect the brain from the effect of Alzheimer's as well as confirming that the disease has been modified with treatment.
 Impact:.
 The novel treatment of Alzheimer's with antibiotics has provided a potential breakthrough in the field. In addition to verifying changes in the brain, MRI scans can observe HOW this process could occur, thus opening doors to other new treatments for Alzheimer's and perhaps even cures.

>>NCT02839187
The present study aimed at measuring cerebral changes in Alzheimer Disease (AD) patients, who responded to strict physiological criteria typical of AD pathology. The objective of the present study was to identify the earliest alterations in cerebral connections that could contribute to the initial episodic memory impairment.

>>NCT00620191
Hyperinsulinemia and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are important potential risk factors for cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Two thirds of the US adult population are at risk for hyperinsulinemia and T2D and half of the population 85 years and older have AD. Peripheral hyperinsulinemia can impair the clearance of amyloid beta in the brain, the main culprit in AD. Thus, we hypothesize the lowering peripheral insulin in overweight persons with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (AMCI), a transition state between normal cognition and AD, can decrease the risk of cognitive decline and progression to AD. We propose to conduct a phase II double blinded placebo controlled randomized clinical trial of metformin, a safe and effective medication that prevents hyperinsulinemia and diabetes, to test this hypothesis among 80 overweight persons aged 55 to 90 years with AMCI. The main outcome of the study will be changes in performance in a memory test (total recall of the Selective Reminding Test) and the Score a test of general cognitive function used in clinical trials (the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale-ADAS-Cog). . Another aim is to compare brain function in an area affected by Alzheimer's disease between the metformin and placebo group mean changes from beginning to end among 40 participants using a PET scan. Hyperinsulinemia and type 2 diabetes (T2D) are important potential risk factors for cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Two thirds of the US adult population are at risk for hyperinsulinemia and T2D and half of the population 85 years and older have AD. Peripheral hyperinsulinemia can impair the clearance of amyloid beta in the brain, the main culprit in AD. Thus, we hypothesize the lowering peripheral insulin in overweight persons with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (AMCI), a transition state between normal cognition and AD, can decrease the risk of cognitive decline and progression to AD. We propose to conduct a phase II double blinded placebo controlled randomized clinical trial of metformin, a safe and effective medication that prevents hyperinsulinemia and diabetes, to test this hypothesis among 80 overweight persons aged 55 to 90 years with AMCI. The main outcome of the study will be changes in performance in a memory test (total recall of the Selective Reminding Test) and the Score a test of general cognitive function used in clinical trials (the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale-ADAS-Cog). . Another aim is to compare brain function in an area affected by Alzheimer's disease between the metformin and placebo group mean changes from beginning to end among 40 participants using a PET scan.

>>NCT00750529
The aim of the study is the analysis of two inhibitors of Ach-E: galantamine and donpzil in over 65 years' old patients suffering from Alzheimer disease (MMSE between 20 and 26) without Alzheimer's medication. The aim of the study is the analysis of two inhibitors of Ach-E: galantamine and donpzil in over 65 years' old patients suffering from Alzheimer disease (MMSE between 20 and 26) without Alzheimer's medication.

>>NCT00249080
Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis are recognized as a major health concern at the present time. There is information in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies regarding the role of brain iron in normal brain aging that may be enhanced with the use of better scanning equipment and procedures and by correlating this information with clinical data. This research study aims to develop and evaluate a number of techniques that can potentially improve the effectiveness of three tesla (3T) magnetic resonance imaging of neurodegenerative brain disorders. Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis are recognized as a major health concern at the present time. There is information in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies regarding the role of brain iron in normal brain aging that may be enhanced with the use of better scanning equipment and procedures and by correlating this information with clinical data. This research study aims to develop and evaluate a number of techniques that can potentially improve the effectiveness of three tesla (3T) magnetic resonance imaging of neurodegenerative brain disorders.

>>NCT01481558
This is a phase 2 double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled study to investigate the effects of repeated transcranial direct current stimulation for the treatment of apathy in moderate Alzheimer's Disease in patients selected from an outpatient clinics in So Paulo, Brazil. This is a phase 2 double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled study to investigate the effects of repeated transcranial direct current stimulation for the treatment of apathy in moderate Alzheimer's Disease in patients selected from an outpatient clinics in So Paulo, Brazil.

>>NCT00253201
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of two doses of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of two doses of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01329536
The purpose of this clinical research study is to determine if a specific genetic allele is involved with the development of agitation in patients with late-onset Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The study will compare the results of genetic testing between two groups: individuals with late-onset AD who show signs of agitation and individuals with late-onset AD who do not show signs of agitation. The purpose of this clinical research study is to determine if a specific genetic allele is involved with the development of agitation in patients with late-onset Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The study will compare the results of genetic testing between two groups: individuals with late-onset AD who show signs of agitation and individuals with late-onset AD who do not show signs of agitation.

>>NCT01841125
Purpose : to Evaluation of the Efficacy of Escitalopram for the Treatment of Depression in Alzheimer's Disease.
 Trial Design : A 12-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled trial with an open-label, 12-week extension Purpose : to Evaluation of the Efficacy of Escitalopram for the Treatment of Depression in Alzheimer's Disease.
 Trial Design : A 12-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled trial with an open-label, 12-week extension.

>>NCT02078310
A Phase 1b/2, Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-Controlled, Multiple Oral Dose Escalation Study to Assess Safety, Tolerability and Pharmacokinetics of ITI-007 in Healthy Geriatric Volunteers and in Geriatric Patients with Dementia.

>>NCT00001917
The purpose of this study is to use brain imaging technology to study the effects of aging and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) on a specific type of brain receptor.
 The brain is made up of cells called neurons. The neurons communicate with one another and secrete chemicals called neurotransmitters. The neurotransmitters bind to specific sites on other neurons called receptors. Acetylcholine (ACh) is a neurotransmitter that binds to ACh receptors. In both aging and AD, the number of neurons that secrete ACh decreases and the function of some ACh receptors changes. This study will use positron emission tomography (PET) scans of the brain to study the effects of age and AD on muscarinic type 2 [M2], a type of ACh receptor.
 Participants in this study will be injected with a radioactive tracer (ligand [F-18] FP-TZTP) which binds to [M2] receptors. Participants will then undergo a PET scan in order for the density and function of [M2] receptors to be studied. The purpose of this study is to use brain imaging technology to study the effects of aging and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) on a specific type of brain receptor.
 The brain is made up of cells called neurons. The neurons communicate with one another and secrete chemicals called neurotransmitters. The neurotransmitters bind to specific sites on other neurons called receptors. Acetylcholine (ACh) is a neurotransmitter that binds to ACh receptors. In both aging and AD, the number of neurons that secrete ACh decreases and the function of some ACh receptors changes. This study will use positron emission tomography (PET) scans of the brain to study the effects of age and AD on muscarinic type 2 [M2], a type of ACh receptor.
 Participants in this study will be injected with a radioactive tracer (ligand [F-18] FP-TZTP) which binds to [M2] receptors. Participants will then undergo a PET scan in order for the density and function of [M2] receptors to be studied.

>>NCT02264899
A Multicenter national longitudinal cohort study including at least 800 individuals recruited from French Research Memory Centers and followed up over 36 months and included in Memento. A Multicenter national longitudinal cohort study including at least 800 individuals recruited from French Research Memory Centers and followed up over 36 months and included in Memento.

>>NCT01841905
The investigators are conducting a study to try to improve our ability to identify older adults who are at high-risk for progression to Alzheimer's disease, several years before they have symptoms that might reduce their quality of life. The investigators believe they can increase the sensitivity of tests of memory and problem solving, by using a very small dose of a medication (scopolamine) that reduces the activity of the principal chemical system in the brain that is changing in the earliest stages of Alzheimer's disease. By pairing this "micro-dose" drug challenge (that is administered with a tiny needle placed just under the surface of the skin on the forearm), with our tests of memory and thinking, it is believed that the investigators can create a "stress test" that is very similar in concept to the use of the exercise treadmill to make the results of a heart EKG more sensitive to detect early disease, as a cardiac stress test for heart disease. The investigators want to create a similar stress test for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The investigators are conducting a study to try to improve our ability to identify older adults who are at high-risk for progression to Alzheimer's disease, several years before they have symptoms that might reduce their quality of life. The investigators believe they can increase the sensitivity of tests of memory and problem solving, by using a very small dose of a medication (scopolamine) that reduces the activity of the principal chemical system in the brain that is changing in the earliest stages of Alzheimer's disease. By pairing this "micro-dose" drug challenge (that is administered with a tiny needle placed just under the surface of the skin on the forearm), with our tests of memory and thinking, it is believed that the investigators can create a "stress test" that is very similar in concept to the use of the exercise treadmill to make the results of a heart EKG more sensitive to detect early disease, as a cardiac stress test for heart disease. The investigators want to create a similar stress test for Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00362024
MK0952 is a phosphodiesterase type IV (PDE4) inhibitor in development for improvement of cognitive impairment in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01334749
The primary aim of the DEDEMAS (Determinants of Dementia After Stroke) study is to identify predictors of post stroke dementia (PSD). A particular focus will be on biological markers (neuroimaging, biochemical markers derived from blood) and on interactions between vascular and neurodegenerative mechanisms. For this purpose patients with an acute stroke and without prior dementia will be followed for 60 months.
 Note: Starting from 01.01.2014 this study is expanded to a multi-centric design funded by the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (The DZNE - Mechanisms of Dementia After Stroke (DEMDAS) Study). This includes the following study sites: DZNE/Mnchen - Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research, Klinikum der Universitt Mnchen (Coordinator); DZNE/Berlin - Neuroscience Research Center - Campus Mitte Charit; DZNE/Bonn - Klinik und Poliklinik fr Neurologie, Universittsklinikum Bonn; DZNE/Gttingen - University Medical Center Gttingen; DZNE/Magdeburg - Universittsklinikum Magdeburg. The primary aim of the DEDEMAS (Determinants of Dementia After Stroke) study is to identify predictors of post stroke dementia (PSD). A particular focus will be on biological markers (neuroimaging, biochemical markers derived from blood) and on interactions between vascular and neurodegenerative mechanisms. For this purpose patients with an acute stroke and without prior dementia will be followed for 60 months.
 Note: Starting from 01.01.2014 this study is expanded to a multi-centric design funded by the German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (The DZNE - Mechanisms of Dementia After Stroke (DEMDAS) Study). This includes the following study sites: DZNE/Mnchen - Institute for Stroke and Dementia Research, Klinikum der Universitt Mnchen (Coordinator); DZNE/Berlin - Neuroscience Research Center - Campus Mitte Charit; DZNE/Bonn - Klinik und Poliklinik fr Neurologie, Universittsklinikum Bonn; DZNE/Gttingen - University Medical Center Gttingen; DZNE/Magdeburg - Universittsklinikum Magdeburg.

>>NCT01325402
In this study different mass of the radioligand AZD4694 will be given to patients with Alzheimer's Disease and healthy volunteers to evaluate wich Mass of AZD4694 that gives the best opportunities for following disease progress and treatment effects. In this study different mass of the radioligand AZD4694 will be given to patients with Alzheimer's Disease and healthy volunteers to evaluate wich Mass of AZD4694 that gives the best opportunities for following disease progress and treatment effects.

>>NCT00056225
The purpose of this study is to determine whether reduction of homocysteine levels with high-dose folate (folic acid), B6 and B12 supplementation will slow the rate of cognitive decline in persons with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine whether reduction of homocysteine levels with high-dose folate (folic acid), B6 and B12 supplementation will slow the rate of cognitive decline in persons with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00099567
The purpose of this study is to determine if the metabolic syndrome is a risk factor for cognitive decline and if this association is modified by inflammation. The purpose of this study is to determine if the metabolic syndrome is a risk factor for cognitive decline and if this association is modified by inflammation.

>>NCT00838942
The VIVA study is focused on Alzheimer's disease patients with a low vision due to a bilateral cataract. The aim is to study cataract surgery results on patients' autonomy, behaviour and mood. In fact those dement elderly patients suffer from a progressive loss of superior functions, with loss of autonomy, behaviour and mood degradation, associated with physical disabilities. The work hypothesis is that a loss of sensorial functions, particularly visual, is an aggravating factor of NEURO-cognitive troubles and absence of communication with outside circle. The protocol consists in investigating superior functions, autonomy and behaviour troubles of the participating patients, with the help of a series of neuropsychological tests used one month before and three months after cataract operation on the eye with the worst vision. Independently of the study, patients must have given an informed consent to cataract surgery. Their participation lasts 4 months+/- 1 month. The aim of the study is to evaluate whether the cataract surgery improves patients' behaviour, autonomy and mood and possibly to show evidence onf drawbacks in of such a practice.The main objective targets to cataract surgery benefice on patients suffering from both Alzheimer's disease and impeding cataract, aiming to improve behaviour troubles. The specific objective is to measure this benefice in correlation with visual acuity improvement. The VIVA study is focused on Alzheimer's disease patients with a low vision due to a bilateral cataract. The aim is to study cataract surgery results on patients' autonomy, behaviour and mood. In fact those dement elderly patients suffer from a progressive loss of superior functions, with loss of autonomy, behaviour and mood degradation, associated with physical disabilities. The work hypothesis is that a loss of sensorial functions, particularly visual, is an aggravating factor of NEURO-cognitive troubles and absence of communication with outside circle. The protocol consists in investigating superior functions, autonomy and behaviour troubles of the participating patients, with the help of a series of neuropsychological tests used one month before and three months after cataract operation on the eye with the worst vision. Independently of the study, patients must have given an informed consent to cataract surgery. Their participation lasts 4 months+/- 1 month. The aim of the study is to evaluate whether the cataract surgery improves patients' behaviour, autonomy and mood and possibly to show evidence onf drawbacks in of such a practice.The main objective targets to cataract surgery benefice on patients suffering from both Alzheimer's disease and impeding cataract, aiming to improve behaviour troubles. The specific objective is to measure this benefice in correlation with visual acuity improvement.

>>NCT01424436
Modulation of beta-amyloid levels in CSF and plasma by GSK933776 in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment Modulation of beta-amyloid levels in CSF and plasma by GSK933776 in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT00547560
To assess the safety and tolerability of ascending, multiple, oral doses of GSI-953 in healthy elderly subjects.

>>NCT00744978
1. Assess the efficacy of varenicline, relative to placebo, on a performance based measure of cognition in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
 2. Evaluate the effects of varenicline on clinically relevant measures including attention and executive function, behavior and clinician rated global change.
 3. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of varenicline, relative to placebo, in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
 4. Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of varenicline in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01825317
Non-invasive stimulation of the brain using magnetic and cognitive stimulation by computer for the treatment of Alzheimer patients. Non-invasive stimulation of the brain using magnetic and cognitive stimulation by computer for the treatment of Alzheimer patients.

>>NCT00586430
We expect the results of this pilot study to justify a larger study that follows people to determine if certain tests of memory and attention, performed while sleepiness is induced by a single dose of lorazepam (a widely used anti-anxiety medication) could predict an individual's risk of developing AD. We plan to compare cognitively normal people who possess a common gene that increases risk for AD- the apolipoprotein E (APOE) e4 allele-to individuals without this gene. We hypothesize that a single 2 mg dose of lorazepam will cause more cognitive impairment in carriers of the APOE e4 allele than in noncarriers and that the carriers will recover more slowly from these impairments than noncarriers. We expect the results of this pilot study to justify a larger study that follows people to determine if certain tests of memory and attention, performed while sleepiness is induced by a single dose of lorazepam (a widely used anti-anxiety medication) could predict an individual's risk of developing AD. We plan to compare cognitively normal people who possess a common gene that increases risk for AD- the apolipoprotein E (APOE) e4 allele-to individuals without this gene. We hypothesize that a single 2 mg dose of lorazepam will cause more cognitive impairment in carriers of the APOE e4 allele than in noncarriers and that the carriers will recover more slowly from these impairments than noncarriers.

>>NCT00413621
The study will investigate the possibility of detecting early signs of Alzheimer's disease using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). If plaques, types of damage, can be imaged by MRI, the procedure could be used in clinical trials and may also help in the clinical diagnosis of patients. Alzheimer's disease, a progressive disease, is a major cause of functional disability and institutionalization, affecting 4.5 million people in the United States, a number that will more than triple by 2030 as the population ages.
 Patients ages 55 to 90 who have mild symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and who are in good health may be eligible for this study. Twenty patients will be recruited from Johns Hopkins' Alzheimer's Disease Research Center. There will also be a control group of 20 people without the disease.
 Healthy patients and volunteers will have a clinical MRI brain scan and a neurological examination at Johns Hopkins Hospital before the 7T MRI scan. Also, patients will have a Mini-Mental State Examination, a standardized test to evaluate memory, done at Johns Hopkins within 4 weeks of the 7T MRI. This study uses a device situated at the NIH Bethesda campus that operates at a high magnetic field strength of 7 Tesla, that is, the unit used to measure the strength of a strong magnet. The Food and Drug Administration has categorized MRI up to 8 Tesla as not a significant health risk. MRI scanning is routinely done at magnetic field strengths up to 4T. MRI images are created through the use of a large magnet and radio waves. During the procedure, patients lie on a table moved into a strong magnetic field. They are asked to lie still but can easily hear and speak to research staff. A respiratory belt is placed around the chest and a finger probe is placed on the finger, to monitor breathing and heart rate. For obtaining a better picture, a special lightweight coil may be placed on or around the patient's head. The scan takes from 20 minutes to 2 hours, with most scans at 45 to 90 minutes. Due to limited experience with the use of 7T MRI and its investigational nature, patients will be asked to complete a questionnaire immediately after the study. They will be asked about their comfort level and if they experienced unusual sensations. Answers will be reviewed with patients by an experienced MRI investigator to get details of any unusual sensations reported. If patients experience unusual sensations, they are followed up by phone within 24 hours.
 This study wi... The study will investigate the possibility of detecting early signs of Alzheimer's disease using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). If plaques, types of damage, can be imaged by MRI, the procedure could be used in clinical trials and may also help in the clinical diagnosis of patients. Alzheimer's disease, a progressive disease, is a major cause of functional disability and institutionalization, affecting 4.5 million people in the United States, a number that will more than triple by 2030 as the population ages.
 Patients ages 55 to 90 who have mild symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and who are in good health may be eligible for this study. Twenty patients will be recruited from Johns Hopkins' Alzheimer's Disease Research Center. There will also be a control group of 20 people without the disease.
 Healthy patients and volunteers will have a clinical MRI brain scan and a neurological examination at Johns Hopkins Hospital before the 7T MRI scan. Also, patients will have a Mini-Mental State Examination, a standardized test to evaluate memory, done at Johns Hopkins within 4 weeks of the 7T MRI. This study uses a device situated at the NIH Bethesda campus that operates at a high magnetic field strength of 7 Tesla, that is, the unit used to measure the strength of a strong magnet. The Food and Drug Administration has categorized MRI up to 8 Tesla as not a significant health risk. MRI scanning is routinely done at magnetic field strengths up to 4T. MRI images are created through the use of a large magnet and radio waves. During the procedure, patients lie on a table moved into a strong magnetic field. They are asked to lie still but can easily hear and speak to research staff. A respiratory belt is placed around the chest and a finger probe is placed on the finger, to monitor breathing and heart rate. For obtaining a better picture, a special lightweight coil may be placed on or around the patient's head. The scan takes from 20 minutes to 2 hours, with most scans at 45 to 90 minutes. Due to limited experience with the use of 7T MRI and its investigational nature, patients will be asked to complete a questionnaire immediately after the study. They will be asked about their comfort level and if they experienced unusual sensations. Answers will be reviewed with patients by an experienced MRI investigator to get details of any unusual sensations reported. If patients experience unusual sensations, they are followed up by phone within 24 hours.
 This study wi...

>>NCT00146263
Background:.
 The aging of the population has lead to a significant increase in the number of older people suffering from cognitive impairment and dementia. The present lack of effective drug therapy for these conditions makes it imperative to investigate other potential therapeutic interventions.
 Cognitive training has been described as possibly useful in improving cognitive function in elderly subjects with mild impairment and early dementia. However, there have been few well-designed studies to date and the results are equivocal. Most studies have relied on the use of paper-based neuropsychological assessment instruments with limited accuracy and reproducibility. The investigators have developed a validated computerized neuropsychological assessment battery with increased test-retest reliability.
 The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of a computerized training program on cognitive function in older persons with normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment and early dementia.
 Description:.
 A randomized prospective AB/BA crossover study.
 Methods:.
 Eligible males and females aged 60 years and older following initial computerized neuropsychological assessment will be randomized to receive either a 12-session computerized cognitive training program or no treatment. Repeat neuropsychological assessment will be followed by a 4-week no treatment phase, reassessment and crossover phase. Repeat assessments will be performed at three and six months.

>>NCT00161473
The purpose of this study is to see if a medication called prazosin is useful in the treatment of agitation and aggression in persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other types of dementia in late life. The purpose of this study is to see if a medication called prazosin is useful in the treatment of agitation and aggression in persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other types of dementia in late life.

>>NCT01127633
This study is an open-label extension study in Alzheimer's patients who have completed participation in either solanezumab Clinical Trial H8A-MC-LZAM (NCT00905372) or H8A-MC-LZAN (NCT00904683).

>>NCT02829801
The animal-assisted therapy (AAT) is now considered a non-drug care and is often used in geriatrics. Many studies have shown a link between the presence of the animal and the psycho-behavioral symptoms decrease in dementia (PBSD) such as depression, anxiety or irritability that affects their quality of life and improved cognitive abilities. However, many methodological flaws in these researches exist.
 The aim of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of AAT on the well-being of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) at the stage of Major Neuro Cognitive Disorder (NCD) at short and medium term (before care, during care (at the beginning and end of each session), 1 week after, 2 weeks and 1 month after the last session) compared to a group receiving the same stimulation without the dog's response.
 Patients will be seen in groups of 4 to 6 people at 8 workshops. 2 groups will be formed: AAT group versus control group. The only difference between these two groups is the intervention of the dog at each workshop in the AAT group.
 Each workshop will consist of three identical times. It will begin with a 15 minute introductory activity, the first goal will be to establish a relationship with patients (patients-patients and patients-caregivers) and a 40 minute cognitive stimulation, identical in the 2 groups, will be proposed and finally 5 minutes will be devoted to the closing of the session This study should highlight a positive effect of animal assisted therapy on the well-being, PBSD, depression, anxiety and cognitive abilities and a long-term retention of these positive effects.

>>NCT00177671
This study will determine the effectiveness of combining escitalopram, venlafaxine or duloxetine with donepezil, a medication used in Alzheimer's disease, in improving memory, concentration, attention and problem solving abilities and reducing the risk of depressive relapse in older individuals with depression. This study will determine the effectiveness of combining escitalopram, venlafaxine or duloxetine with donepezil, a medication used in Alzheimer's disease, in improving memory, concentration, attention and problem solving abilities and reducing the risk of depressive relapse in older individuals with depression.

>>NCT00762411
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a fatal degenerative disease of the brain for which there is no cure. AD causes brain cells to die. AD is thought to be caused by an excess of beta amyloid (-amyloid), a sticky protein in the brain that forms amyloid plaques. At autopsy, AD patients are required to have these amyloid plaques in the brain in order to have a definitive diagnosis of AD. Inhibiting the enzyme gamma-secretase (-secretase) lowers the production of -amyloid. Semagacestat (LY450139) is a functional -secretase inhibitor and was shown to lower -amyloid in blood and spinal fluid in humans tested thus far and in blood, spinal fluid and brain in animals tested thus far. This study used several different tests to measure the effect of semagacestat on both -amyloid and amyloid plaques for some patients. The buildup of amyloid plaques was measured by a brain scan that takes a picture of amyloid plaques in the brain. Other tests measured the overall function of the brain and brain size in some patients. In this trial, patients who initially received placebo (inactive sugar pill) were, at a certain point in the study, switched over to active drug, semagacestat. In other words, all patients could eventually receive active drug. Each patient's participation could last approximately 2 years. Patients taking approved AD medications were permitted to participate in this study and continue taking these medications during the study. All patients who completed this study had the option to continue receiving semagacestat by participating in an open label study.
 Preliminary results from this study (LFBC) (and another similar study LFAN [NCT00594568]) showed semagacestat did not slow disease progression and was associated with worsening of clinical measures of cognition and the ability to perform activities of daily living. Study drug was stopped in all studies. LFBC, LFAN and open label LFBF (NCT01035138) have been amended to continue collecting safety data, including cognitive scores, for at least seven months. The CT-Registry will reflect results of analyses from the original protocol in addition to those from the amended protocol.

>>NCT02719834
Behavioral expressions, such as agitation and aggression, affect up to 90% of persons with dementia and are a major source of patient and caregiver distress, nursing home placement, anti-psychotic medication use, restraints and increased health care costs. The purpose of the research study is to investigate whether reducing pain reduces behavioral expressions of Alzheimer's disease (agitation and aggression). Behavioral expressions, such as agitation and aggression, affect up to 90% of persons with dementia and are a major source of patient and caregiver distress, nursing home placement, anti-psychotic medication use, restraints and increased health care costs. The purpose of the research study is to investigate whether reducing pain reduces behavioral expressions of Alzheimer's disease (agitation and aggression).

>>NCT00105638
This study was designed to evaluate the impact of a Telehealth Education Program (TEP) on outpatient veterans with moderate to severe dementia and their spouse caregivers. The TEP is a program of education, coping skills, problem solving and support presented to caregivers of veterans with dementia by teleconference in 10 weekly, one-hour sessions. The TEP was based on a stress and coping model aimed to enhance the knowledge, skills and feelings of support of the caregivers who participated. This study was designed to evaluate the impact of a Telehealth Education Program (TEP) on outpatient veterans with moderate to severe dementia and their spouse caregivers. The TEP is a program of education, coping skills, problem solving and support presented to caregivers of veterans with dementia by teleconference in 10 weekly, one-hour sessions. The TEP was based on a stress and coping model aimed to enhance the knowledge, skills and feelings of support of the caregivers who participated.

>>NCT00001662
Glutamate is an amino acid released by brain cells that acts to excite other cells. Glutamate attaches to special sites on cells called AMPA (alpha-amino-2.3-dihydro-5 methyl 3-oxo-4-isoxazolepropanoic acid) receptors. The brain cells responsible for releasing glutamate are damaged in Alzheimer's disease and other conditions affecting thinking and reasoning.
 Researchers would like to see if giving patients a drug that attaches to AMPA receptors improves the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease.
 CX516 (Ampalex) is a test drug that affects the AMPA receptors. This study will investigate the effectiveness and safety of CX516 on patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 Patients will be given capsules of CX516 or placebo (sugar pill that neither harms nor helps) for up to 16 weeks in different amounts. The effectiveness of the drug will be measured by neurological tests. Safety will be monitored by frequent check-ups and lab examinations. Glutamate is an amino acid released by brain cells that acts to excite other cells. Glutamate attaches to special sites on cells called AMPA (alpha-amino-2.3-dihydro-5 methyl 3-oxo-4-isoxazolepropanoic acid) receptors. The brain cells responsible for releasing glutamate are damaged in Alzheimer's disease and other conditions affecting thinking and reasoning.
 Researchers would like to see if giving patients a drug that attaches to AMPA receptors improves the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease.
 CX516 (Ampalex) is a test drug that affects the AMPA receptors. This study will investigate the effectiveness and safety of CX516 on patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 Patients will be given capsules of CX516 or placebo (sugar pill that neither harms nor helps) for up to 16 weeks in different amounts. The effectiveness of the drug will be measured by neurological tests. Safety will be monitored by frequent check-ups and lab examinations.

>>NCT02537938
This study involves the use of an investigational drug called NGP 555. In each group of healthy subjects, 2 people will receive placebo and 6 people will receive NGP 555. This study involves the use of an investigational drug called NGP 555. In each group of healthy subjects, 2 people will receive placebo and 6 people will receive NGP 555.

>>NCT02531360
The overall goal of this imaging trial is to characterize [18F]MNI-815, a PET radioligand for imaging Tau.

>>NCT02208193
Gardens and art represent public spaces and support venues of interactions and emotions, seeking not only a variety of conversational themes but also various cognitive skills such as mnemonic skills. The cognitive and psycho-behavioral effects of art and the garden, jointly associated and made available to patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease, need to be evaluated.
 MAIN OBJECTIVE Delineate the psychological scaffolding virtues of art and garden on cognitive and emotional processes by means of interview analyses in Alzheimer patients and control subjects based on the " art, memory and life " garden.
 SECONDARY OBJECTIVES Adapt eco-psychosocial approaches of care management to Alzheimer patients:.
 - create assessment methods of:.
 - the therapeutic efficacy of the design of the " art, memory and life " garden,.
 - the perception of an artistic dimension in the living environment of those with Alzheimer's disease,.
 - establish:.
 - workshop applications using art and the garden for therapeutic purposes,.
 - general recommendations for the layout of the garden. PRIMARY ENDPOINT Quantitative data of discursive productions stemming from Interlocutory Logic (Trognon and Batt, 2007, 2010, 2011) for the analysis of interactive behaviors and the assessment of parameters including esthetic appraisals, well-being, mnemonic and emotional processes (frequency and nature of these processes) as well as spatio-temporal orientation.
 SECONDARY ENDPOINTS.
 - Scores obtained in standard neuropsychological tests, in particular to assess spatio-temporal orientation (Folstein MMSE),.
 - Scores obtained with the " MemoArtZ " tool (MAZ) to evaluate the memorization of artistic elements of the garden,.
 - Scores from the " General Esthetic Preference " (GEP) tool to evaluate the consistency of general esthetic appreciations,.
 - Score obtained with the specific mood assessment scale (CSDD) for subjects in group A,.
 - Score obtained with the specific assessment of emotional events scale (AES) for all subjects.
 RESEARCH METHODOLOGY.
 Open, monocentric, controlled (group of healthy control subjects) study.
 Population: 2 groups:.
 Group A "Alzheimer group": patients with mild to severe stages of Alzheimer's disease: subgroup A1 "Alzheimer group hospitalized at the Paul Spillmann Centre (Centre Paul Spillmann, CPS)" (CHU de Nancy, France); subgroup A2 "Alzheimer group monitored at the Resource and Research Memory Centre (Centre Mmoire de Ressources et de Recherche, CMRR)" (CHU de Nancy, France) Group B "healthy control group": healthy volunteers.
 Therapeutic fallouts of this study will benefit Alzheimer patients in terms of better care management, notably: i) by determining the design, conception and layout of the gardens destined to these patients, ii) by developing the introduction of an artistic dimension to the design of such healing gardens and in their living environment, iii) by establishing workshop application perspectives using the contemplation of works of art and the garden for therapeutic purposes. Gardens and art represent public spaces and support venues of interactions and emotions, seeking not only a variety of conversational themes but also various cognitive skills such as mnemonic skills. The cognitive and psycho-behavioral effects of art and the garden, jointly associated and made available to patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease, need to be evaluated.
 MAIN OBJECTIVE Delineate the psychological scaffolding virtues of art and garden on cognitive and emotional processes by means of interview analyses in Alzheimer patients and control subjects based on the " art, memory and life " garden.
 SECONDARY OBJECTIVES Adapt eco-psychosocial approaches of care management to Alzheimer patients:.
 - create assessment methods of:.
 - the therapeutic efficacy of the design of the " art, memory and life " garden,.
 - the perception of an artistic dimension in the living environment of those with Alzheimer's disease,.
 - establish:.
 - workshop applications using art and the garden for therapeutic purposes,.
 - general recommendations for the layout of the garden. PRIMARY ENDPOINT Quantitative data of discursive productions stemming from Interlocutory Logic (Trognon and Batt, 2007, 2010, 2011) for the analysis of interactive behaviors and the assessment of parameters including esthetic appraisals, well-being, mnemonic and emotional processes (frequency and nature of these processes) as well as spatio-temporal orientation.
 SECONDARY ENDPOINTS.
 - Scores obtained in standard neuropsychological tests, in particular to assess spatio-temporal orientation (Folstein MMSE),.
 - Scores obtained with the " MemoArtZ " tool (MAZ) to evaluate the memorization of artistic elements of the garden,.
 - Scores from the " General Esthetic Preference " (GEP) tool to evaluate the consistency of general esthetic appreciations,.
 - Score obtained with the specific mood assessment scale (CSDD) for subjects in group A,.
 - Score obtained with the specific assessment of emotional events scale (AES) for all subjects.
 RESEARCH METHODOLOGY.
 Open, monocentric, controlled (group of healthy control subjects) study.
 Population: 2 groups:.
 Group A "Alzheimer group": patients with mild to severe stages of Alzheimer's disease: subgroup A1 "Alzheimer group hospitalized at the Paul Spillmann Centre (Centre Paul Spillmann, CPS)" (CHU de Nancy, France); subgroup A2 "Alzheimer group monitored at the Resource and Research Memory Centre (Centre Mmoire de Ressources et de Recherche, CMRR)" (CHU de Nancy, France) Group B "healthy control group": healthy volunteers.
 Therapeutic fallouts of this study will benefit Alzheimer patients in terms of better care management, notably: i) by determining the design, conception and layout of the gardens destined to these patients, ii) by developing the introduction of an artistic dimension to the design of such healing gardens and in their living environment, iii) by establishing workshop application perspectives using the contemplation of works of art and the garden for therapeutic purposes.

>>NCT00745576
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of multiple doses of verapamil on the plasma concentration of a single dose of SAM-531 in healthy young adult subjects and to assess the safety and tolerability of co-administration of SAM-531 and verapamil.

>>NCT01211782
The study will evaluate the safety & efficacy of AC-1204, a ketogenic compound, administered orally on a daily basis for 6 months. Following the 6 month double-blind phase of the study, subjects may enroll in an optional 6 month open-label extension phase. Efficacy will be evaluated by standard tests of memory and cognition, along with other measurements of activities of daily living and quality of life. Safety will be assessed by frequency of adverse events and changes in laboratory test results. Subjects will be stratified and outcomes will be separately analyzed based on apolipoprotein E4 genotype (APOE4). The study will evaluate the safety & efficacy of AC-1204, a ketogenic compound, administered orally on a daily basis for 6 months. Following the 6 month double-blind phase of the study, subjects may enroll in an optional 6 month open-label extension phase. Efficacy will be evaluated by standard tests of memory and cognition, along with other measurements of activities of daily living and quality of life. Safety will be assessed by frequency of adverse events and changes in laboratory test results. Subjects will be stratified and outcomes will be separately analyzed based on apolipoprotein E4 genotype (APOE4).

>>NCT02420535
Behavioral symptoms that commonly occur with dementia are associated with increased health care utilization and can lead to challenges for the person living with dementia and their caregivers. Caregivers need knowledge and skills to monitor these behaviors, to identify what triggers them and to learn how to use proven, practical medication-free strategies to prevent and manage the behaviors. The purpose of this study is to develop and test the WeCareAdvisor, a customized, internet-based computer tool for family caregivers that helps them to assess, manage and track behavioral symptoms and their contributing factors (e.g., pain, sleep disturbance) and that provides tailored strategies for in-home, medication-free behavior management. This study is a collaboration between researchers at the University of Michigan and Johns Hopkins University.

>>NCT01843075
This is a 12-month, multicentre randomised double-blind placebo-controlled Phase IIb study in patients with mild Alzheimer's dementia (AD). The investigators aim to recruit patients with mild Alzheimer's dementia as defined by the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke - Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorder Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) Criteria for Probable Alzheimer's Dementia or meeting Dubois criteria for early AD, with Mini Mental State Evaluation score of at least 22 out of a maximum of 30 and a CDR Global score of 0.5 or 1.
 Patients will be randomised on a 1:1 ratio to receive liraglutide or identical matching placebo.

>>NCT02050464
The Virtual Physiological Human: DementiA Research Enabled by IT (VPH-DARE@IT) is a four-year IT-project funded through the European Union (EU). The project consortium involves a total of 21 universities and industrial partners from 10 European countries. The project delivers the first patient-specific predictive models for early differential diagnosis of dementia and their evolution. An integrated clinical decision support platform will be validated / tested by access to a dozen databases of international cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. As a part of the VPH-DARE@IT project, a new prospective cohort will be collected in Kuopio. This prospective cohort will be used to test further the modeling approaches and tools developed by using the retrospective databases. The Virtual Physiological Human: DementiA Research Enabled by IT (VPH-DARE@IT) is a four-year IT-project funded through the European Union (EU). The project consortium involves a total of 21 universities and industrial partners from 10 European countries. The project delivers the first patient-specific predictive models for early differential diagnosis of dementia and their evolution. An integrated clinical decision support platform will be validated / tested by access to a dozen databases of international cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. As a part of the VPH-DARE@IT project, a new prospective cohort will be collected in Kuopio. This prospective cohort will be used to test further the modeling approaches and tools developed by using the retrospective databases.

>>NCT00726115
The main objectives of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of ascending single and multiple oral doses of SAM-531 in healthy subjects.

>>NCT02380703
This study will evaluate whether a home-based targeted education and skill training (Agression Prevention Training or APT) will reduce aggression in persons with dementia (PWD) and pain/pain-related features more than usual care plus supportive telephone calls. Half of the participants will receive APT and half will receive supportive telephone calls. This study will evaluate whether a home-based targeted education and skill training (Agression Prevention Training or APT) will reduce aggression in persons with dementia (PWD) and pain/pain-related features more than usual care plus supportive telephone calls. Half of the participants will receive APT and half will receive supportive telephone calls.

>>NCT02005991
This study will see how PF-05212377, an experimental drug to treat symptoms from Alzheimer's Disease, distributes in the brain after one dose of PF-05212377 is administered orally to healthy volunteer subjects. The study will also evaluate the safety and tolerability of PF-05212377 in these subjects and will measure the level of PF-05212377 in the blood.

>>NCT00205621
In this study in-vivo quantification of amyloid load will be performed in patients with AD, MCI and normal controls with Positron Emission Tomography. For this the PET tracers [11C]PIB and [18F]FDDNP will be compared. In this study in-vivo quantification of amyloid load will be performed in patients with AD, MCI and normal controls with Positron Emission Tomography. For this the PET tracers [11C]PIB and [18F]FDDNP will be compared.

>>NCT02746484
The Ability research project, funded in Italy within the Smart Cities and Smart Communities funding program (MInistry of University and Research, Operational Regional Programme, Lombardy, Axis 1, Operational Regional Programme - European Funding for Regional Development 2007-2013), aims at developing and testing the efficacy and the impact of a Personal Smart Health Community able to provide innovative trajectories for people with cognitive impairment, putting them at the core of a continuous and intertwining treatment and support from both formal (e.g. physicians) and informal (e.g. near relatives) caregivers, with special focus on home-based care.
 Within this framework of the Ability project the investigators test the efficacy of the home-based motor-cognitive rehabilitation program delivered with two different approaches: the Ability platform versus the usual care program.

>>NCT02260167
Treating with measures that may improve metabolic functioning of neurons in an integrated protocol Treating with measures that may improve metabolic functioning of neurons in an integrated protocol.

>>NCT00956410
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of repeated subcutaneous injections of CAD106 in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00911690
This study is collecting tissue specimens (blood, urine and saliva) from up to 1000 patients, with and without cognitive disorders, to store in the Bio Bank for future research. The specimens could be used in future research projects that could help improve the accuracy of diagnosis of a disease, predict who might develop a disease, help monitor the disease or improve the understanding of the disease. Patients are only being recruited from Beaumont Hospitals Geriatric Clinic. This study is collecting tissue specimens (blood, urine and saliva) from up to 1000 patients, with and without cognitive disorders, to store in the Bio Bank for future research. The specimens could be used in future research projects that could help improve the accuracy of diagnosis of a disease, predict who might develop a disease, help monitor the disease or improve the understanding of the disease. Patients are only being recruited from Beaumont Hospitals Geriatric Clinic.

>>NCT00736775
This is a Phase I, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that will be conducted in the United States and consists of a single ascending-dose stage followed by a multidose, parallel-treatment stage. This study will be conducted in approximately 50 adult patients between 50-85 years old who have mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01253499
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of TRx0037 after multiple doses in elderly volunteers.

>>NCT02245568
The purpose of this study is to provide subjects who have completed participation in a Phase 2 or Phase 3 trial with TRx0237 continued access to therapy and to evaluate the long-term safety of TRx0237.

>>NCT01315717
The purpose of this study is to examine and to compare gait characteristics under single- and dual-task conditions among healthy subjects together with AD patients at different stages of disease (i.e., pre-dementia, mild and moderate dementia stages). The purpose of this study is to examine and to compare gait characteristics under single- and dual-task conditions among healthy subjects together with AD patients at different stages of disease (i.e., pre-dementia, mild and moderate dementia stages).

>>NCT00890890
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of BMS-708163 in patients with Prodromal Alzheimer's disease over a treatment period of a minimum of 104-weeks. In addition patients will be seen for safety visits at 4 and 12 weeks post treatment.

>>NCT00479700
To assess the safety and tolerability of ascending single oral doses of SAM-531 in healthy subjects.To obtain preliminary pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profiles of SAM-531, an investigational drug, in healthy subjects and to evaluate the effect of a high-fat meal on the PK of SAM-531 administered to healthy subjects.

>>NCT00097916
About 65% of patients with severe Alzheimer's Disease (AD) will have symptoms of agitation. There are drawbacks associated with the currently available therapeutic interventions for agitation associated with Alzheimer's Disease. In a recent trial, in the group of patients with moderate to severe AD treated with memantine, there were fewer incidences of agitation. It is hypothesized that memantine will be effective in reducing the symptoms of agitation associated with moderate to severe Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02502045
Determine effect and duration of effect of timed therapeutic light compared to control light on parameters of circadian rhythmicity, physiologic plasticity, sleep and global function in women with Alzheimer's Disease. Determine effect and duration of effect of timed therapeutic light compared to control light on parameters of circadian rhythmicity, physiologic plasticity, sleep and global function in women with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02846415
This study intends to use Play Intervention for Dementia (PID) to promote cognitive functions of people with early to moderate dementia.
 This is a cluster randomized controlled trial aims to recruit 38 participants from two study sites. Participants will be randomly allocated into intervention or wait-list controlled groups. Both groups will receive the same content of PID programme at different time. The PID consists of 12 weekly sessions. Each session lasts for 45-75 minutes. The PID will be facilitated by a play specialist, trained elderly volunteers and centre staffs. Cognitive functions will be evaluated with Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Fuld Object Memory Evaluation and Modified Verbal Fluency Test, conducted by a trained research assistant blinded to group allocation. Centre staffs (not involved in the PID) will be interviewed. Every alternate session will be video-taped for understanding the experience of the participants in the PID programme. This study intends to use Play Intervention for Dementia (PID) to promote cognitive functions of people with early to moderate dementia.
 This is a cluster randomized controlled trial aims to recruit 38 participants from two study sites. Participants will be randomly allocated into intervention or wait-list controlled groups. Both groups will receive the same content of PID programme at different time. The PID consists of 12 weekly sessions. Each session lasts for 45-75 minutes. The PID will be facilitated by a play specialist, trained elderly volunteers and centre staffs. Cognitive functions will be evaluated with Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Fuld Object Memory Evaluation and Modified Verbal Fluency Test, conducted by a trained research assistant blinded to group allocation. Centre staffs (not involved in the PID) will be interviewed. Every alternate session will be video-taped for understanding the experience of the participants in the PID programme.

>>NCT01128361
The current project is a natural extension of a programmatic line of investigation into the relationship between exercise, brain aging and AD that Dr. Burns has developed over the last four years. The current study will provide data to estimate expected effect sizes for power analyses and sample size calculations. It will also provide an opportunity to optimally design a larger trial that can be extended to multiple sites to more definitively examine the role of exercise as a therapy in AD. The current project's aims are an important and necessary developmental step given the lack of fitness data in AD and the limited knowledge of the mechanisms that may form the basis of an association between aerobic fitness and AD.

>>NCT02522091
Investigators propose in this study to evaluate prospective memory (MP) in all its complexity as well as the processes, cognitive and brain, the underlying. Specifically, investigators propose to evaluate the evolution of the MP during normal aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD) to identify the cognitive and brain processes underlying this development. To do this, this study will have to include healthy subjects, 18 to 95 years, patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and patients with probable AD. All participants will undergo a series of examinations, both neuropsychological and brain imaging.

>>NCT00191009
This study will compare atomoxetine to placebo when taken with current standard Alzheimer's Disease medications. The treatment will take approximately 6 months and it is hypothesized atomoxetine will significantly improve cognitive performance as compared to placebo.

>>NCT00626613
To evaluate the relationship between Risperidone Treatment, Treatment Discontinuation Rate and Quality of Life of patients with Alzheimer's Disease and BPSD. To evaluate the relationship between Risperidone Treatment, Treatment Discontinuation Rate and Quality of Life of patients with Alzheimer's Disease and BPSD.

>>NCT01380288
The purpose of this study is to evaluate and compare the changes of cognitive function (as measured by ADAS-Cog) in the two group of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) associated with and without white matter changes after rivastigmine patch therapy. The purpose of this study is to evaluate and compare the changes of cognitive function (as measured by ADAS-Cog) in the two group of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) associated with and without white matter changes after rivastigmine patch therapy.

>>NCT00190021
Conventional psychotropic medications may be used to treat behavioral disturbances and psychotic symptoms in patients with dementia and they are the drugs of choice for treating delusions and hallucinations. However the sensitivity to side effects in these patients often restricts the use of these agents (2, 3). Although, atypical antipsychotics have some advantages compared with conventional neuroleptics, they also are associated with side effects (5, 6).
 Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) enhance neuronal transmission by increasing the availability of acetylcholine in muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. According to findings of some researchers ChEIs have psychotropic effects and may play an important role in controlling neuropsychiatric and behavioral disturbances in patients with Alzheimer's disease (7-10). These agents may also contribute to the management of other disorders with cholinergic system abnormalities and neuropsychiatric symptoms such as visual hallucinations (11).
 Donepezil is a piperidine-based reversible, noncompetitive ChEI, which is indicated in the management of patients with Alzheimer's disease of mild to moderate severity (12-14). Preliminary observations suggest the possible value of ChEIs in the amelioration of psychotic symptoms in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT), dementia with Lewy bodies and patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (11-18).
 The results of our study (18) indicate that the addition of donepezil to perphenazine resulted in qualitatively superior clinical gains compared to higher doses of neuroleptic therapy without donepezil.
 The finding of the pilot study although impressive, stem from data regarding a rather small sample. The present (second) phase of the study will include a larger sample of patients. We now intend to examine 80 inpatients, aged 65-90 years old, suffering from DAT. Conventional psychotropic medications may be used to treat behavioral disturbances and psychotic symptoms in patients with dementia and they are the drugs of choice for treating delusions and hallucinations. However the sensitivity to side effects in these patients often restricts the use of these agents (2, 3). Although, atypical antipsychotics have some advantages compared with conventional neuroleptics, they also are associated with side effects (5, 6).
 Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) enhance neuronal transmission by increasing the availability of acetylcholine in muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. According to findings of some researchers ChEIs have psychotropic effects and may play an important role in controlling neuropsychiatric and behavioral disturbances in patients with Alzheimer's disease (7-10). These agents may also contribute to the management of other disorders with cholinergic system abnormalities and neuropsychiatric symptoms such as visual hallucinations (11).
 Donepezil is a piperidine-based reversible, noncompetitive ChEI, which is indicated in the management of patients with Alzheimer's disease of mild to moderate severity (12-14). Preliminary observations suggest the possible value of ChEIs in the amelioration of psychotic symptoms in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT), dementia with Lewy bodies and patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (11-18).
 The results of our study (18) indicate that the addition of donepezil to perphenazine resulted in qualitatively superior clinical gains compared to higher doses of neuroleptic therapy without donepezil.
 The finding of the pilot study although impressive, stem from data regarding a rather small sample. The present (second) phase of the study will include a larger sample of patients. We now intend to examine 80 inpatients, aged 65-90 years old, suffering from DAT.

>>NCT00039702
The purpose of this study is to use brain imaging technology to examine the role of certain brain chemicals in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in healthy volunteers.
 Cognitive dysfunction in people with AD is thought to arise from decreased chemical activity in specific parts of the brain. Decreases in alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetycholine receptors (nAChRs) have been found in the brains of people who died with AD; however, the status of this receptor system in living brains remains unclear. This study will use single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to study this receptor system in people with AD who have mild to moderate dementia and in healthy volunteers. In addition, this study will examine the relationship between cognitive dysfunction and nAChR deficits in the brains of individuals with AD.
 Participants with AD will have four clinic visits; healthy volunteers will have three visits. At Visit 1, participants will undergo a medical history, physical examination and laboratory tests. Healthy volunteers will have a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) cognitive function test. Participants with AD will have a MMSE and measurement of the severity of their dementia.
 During Visit 2, participants will undergo a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain.
 At Visit 3, participants will undergo SPECT imaging.
 Only participants with AD will participate in Visit 4. During this visit, cognitive testing will be performed. The purpose of this study is to use brain imaging technology to examine the role of certain brain chemicals in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in healthy volunteers.
 Cognitive dysfunction in people with AD is thought to arise from decreased chemical activity in specific parts of the brain. Decreases in alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetycholine receptors (nAChRs) have been found in the brains of people who died with AD; however, the status of this receptor system in living brains remains unclear. This study will use single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) to study this receptor system in people with AD who have mild to moderate dementia and in healthy volunteers. In addition, this study will examine the relationship between cognitive dysfunction and nAChR deficits in the brains of individuals with AD.
 Participants with AD will have four clinic visits; healthy volunteers will have three visits. At Visit 1, participants will undergo a medical history, physical examination and laboratory tests. Healthy volunteers will have a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) cognitive function test. Participants with AD will have a MMSE and measurement of the severity of their dementia.
 During Visit 2, participants will undergo a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain.
 At Visit 3, participants will undergo SPECT imaging.
 Only participants with AD will participate in Visit 4. During this visit, cognitive testing will be performed.

>>NCT00145132
Aim of this project is to investigate the effects of escitalopram on monoamine transporter (SERT, DAT) availabilities as assessed by b-CIT and SPECT and on neurophysiological parameters such as the loudness dependence of auditory evoked potentials (LDAEP) in patients with depression.

>>NCT01965756
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive loss of memory and other cognitive functions. It is the most common cause of dementia in older adults, affecting approximately 18 million people worldwide, including almost 500000 in the Philadelphia tri-state area. After age 65, the incidence of AD rises exponentially, doubling every five years. By age 85, almost half of us will have AD. In 2030, as many as 7.7 million Americans could have AD and by 2050 this number could rise to 11-16 million people. The annual cost of AD in the United States is about $200 billion. AD-related medical complications are among the most common causes of death in the elderly population. Despite these alarming statistics, a "cure" for AD may not be essential since delaying the onset of AD by just 5 years could have a profound impact on this disorder by reducing the incidence and cost of AD by 50% between now and 2050.
 AD is difficult to recognize in its earliest stages, in which the principal complaint is typically an increase in episodes of forgetfulness. This stage is now commonly referred to as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Neuroimaging and CSF biomarkers have demonstrated good accuracy in predicting which MCI patients later "convert" to AD and which tend to remain stable or revert to more normal cognition. The diagnosis of AD itself is made when increased loss of memory and other cognitive abilities (eg, language, praxis and executive function) affect daily functioning. As the symptoms of dementia inevitably worsen, patients may become incapable of even basic activities such as feeding and dressing themselves. The disease course often spans more than a decade, creating a vast social and financial burden on society and extracting an immeasurable emotional toll on family members.
 Clinical and preclinical evidence is accumulating that brain insulin resistance may play a role in the pathogenesis and/or progression of Alzheimer's disease and that ameliorating insulin action in the brain may benefit cognition symptomatically and modify disease pathology.

>>NCT01366027
PBA is a neurologic condition that is estimated to impact over a million patients and their families in the United States. PBA occurs secondary to an otherwise unrelated neurologic disease or injury and manifests as involuntary, frequent and disruptive outbursts of crying and/or laughing. Progress has been made in better understanding this debilitating condition but much more needs to be done. That's why a new PBA patient registry, PRISM (Pseudobulbar Affect RegIstry Series), has been initiated.
 The goal of PRISM is to establish the prevalence and quality of life (QOL) impact of PBA in patients with underlying neurologic conditions including.
 - Alzheimer's disease.
 - Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
 - Multiple sclerosis.
 - Parkinson's disease.
 - Stroke.
 - Traumatic brain injury.
 Because this is an observational registry, it doesn't require you to intervene with any specific treatment or procedure. Your participation allows the PRISM registry to collect and analyze data from your site and also compare it to national numbers captured in the PRISM registry about PBA across all of the major at-risk neurologic populations.

>>NCT02695004
This is a study to evaluate safety, tolerability and PK of DKF-310 IM injection in healthy male volunteers.

>>NCT00646269
ETNA3 is a multicentric randomised clinical trial conducted in France to evaluate the impact of cognitive training, reminiscence therapy and a "made-to-measure" program on the progression rate of dementia. ETNA3 is a multicentric randomised clinical trial conducted in France to evaluate the impact of cognitive training, reminiscence therapy and a "made-to-measure" program on the progression rate of dementia.

>>NCT02789800
The aim of Patient-Centred Innovations for Persons With Multimorbidity (PACE in MM) study is to reorient the health care system from a single disease focus to a multimorbidity focus; centre on not only disease but also the patient in context; and realign the health care system from separate silos to coordinated collaborations in care. PACE in MM will propose multifaceted innovations in Chronic Disease Prevention and Management (CDPM) that will be grounded in current realities (i.e. Chronic Care Models including Self-Management Programs), that are linked to Primary Care (PC) reform efforts. The study will build on this firm foundation, will design and test promising innovations and will achieve transformation by creating structures to sustain relationships among researchers, decision-makers, practitioners and patients. The Team will conduct inter-jurisdictional comparisons and is mainly a Quebec (QC) - Ontario (ON) collaboration with participation from 3 other provinces: British Columbia (BC); Manitoba (MB); and Nova Scotia (NS). The Team's objectives are: 1) to identify factors responsible for success or failure of current CDPM programs linked to the PC reform, by conducting a realist synthesis of their quantitative and qualitative evaluations; 2) to transform consenting CDPM programs identified in Objective 1, by aligning them to promising interventions on patient-centred care for multimorbidity patients and to test these new innovations' in at least two jurisdictions and compare among jurisdictions; and 3) to foster the scaling-up of innovations informed by Objective 1 and tested/proven in Objective 2 and to conduct research on different approaches to scaling-up. This registration for Clinical Trials only pertains to Objective 2 of the study. The aim of Patient-Centred Innovations for Persons With Multimorbidity (PACE in MM) study is to reorient the health care system from a single disease focus to a multimorbidity focus; centre on not only disease but also the patient in context; and realign the health care system from separate silos to coordinated collaborations in care. PACE in MM will propose multifaceted innovations in Chronic Disease Prevention and Management (CDPM) that will be grounded in current realities (i.e. Chronic Care Models including Self-Management Programs), that are linked to Primary Care (PC) reform efforts. The study will build on this firm foundation, will design and test promising innovations and will achieve transformation by creating structures to sustain relationships among researchers, decision-makers, practitioners and patients. The Team will conduct inter-jurisdictional comparisons and is mainly a Quebec (QC) - Ontario (ON) collaboration with participation from 3 other provinces: British Columbia (BC); Manitoba (MB); and Nova Scotia (NS). The Team's objectives are: 1) to identify factors responsible for success or failure of current CDPM programs linked to the PC reform, by conducting a realist synthesis of their quantitative and qualitative evaluations; 2) to transform consenting CDPM programs identified in Objective 1, by aligning them to promising interventions on patient-centred care for multimorbidity patients and to test these new innovations' in at least two jurisdictions and compare among jurisdictions; and 3) to foster the scaling-up of innovations informed by Objective 1 and tested/proven in Objective 2 and to conduct research on different approaches to scaling-up. This registration for Clinical Trials only pertains to Objective 2 of the study.

>>NCT01137799
This study in patients with stable schizophrenia will investigate the effect of JNJ-39393406 on Event Related Potentials (Auditory Evoked Potential [AEP] P50, AEP P300 and Mismatch Negativity [MMN]) after single dose administration. This study in patients with stable schizophrenia will investigate the effect of JNJ-39393406 on Event Related Potentials (Auditory Evoked Potential [AEP] P50, AEP P300 and Mismatch Negativity [MMN]) after single dose administration.

>>NCT00706186
Eligible patients will undergo this open label initial safety and feasibility study investigating the use of 6 g/day sodium oxybate in mild AD. A total of 5 visits are included with this trial and total subject participation duration of 7-8 weeks. The screening phase will include an initial screening visit and a screening PSG night. After successful screening, subjects will complete a baseline PSG night and undergo a third PSG night to monitor initial safety and compliance with study drug at a dosage of 4.5 g/day of sodium oxybate. Thus the subject will undergo three consecutive nights of PSG in the sleep center. The patient will maintain a dosage of 4.5 g/day for a duration of 7 days leading to Treatment Visit 1. After successful assessment at Treatment Visit 1, the dosage will be increased to 6 g/day for the duration of the trial. At Treatment Visit 2 (day 21), the dosage will be increased to a dosage of 9 g/day, if tolerated by the patient. The remaining visit will occur at 6 weeks after baseline, with Treatment Visit 3 consisting of two consecutive nights of PSG. Participation will be complete after this visit. Phone follow-up will be made at one week post completion visits to assess any wash-out symptoms. Please refer to Figure for flow of the study design. Eligible patients will undergo this open label initial safety and feasibility study investigating the use of 6 g/day sodium oxybate in mild AD. A total of 5 visits are included with this trial and total subject participation duration of 7-8 weeks. The screening phase will include an initial screening visit and a screening PSG night. After successful screening, subjects will complete a baseline PSG night and undergo a third PSG night to monitor initial safety and compliance with study drug at a dosage of 4.5 g/day of sodium oxybate. Thus the subject will undergo three consecutive nights of PSG in the sleep center. The patient will maintain a dosage of 4.5 g/day for a duration of 7 days leading to Treatment Visit 1. After successful assessment at Treatment Visit 1, the dosage will be increased to 6 g/day for the duration of the trial. At Treatment Visit 2 (day 21), the dosage will be increased to a dosage of 9 g/day, if tolerated by the patient. The remaining visit will occur at 6 weeks after baseline, with Treatment Visit 3 consisting of two consecutive nights of PSG. Participation will be complete after this visit. Phone follow-up will be made at one week post completion visits to assess any wash-out symptoms. Please refer to Figure for flow of the study design.

>>NCT01529619
This is a multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Rivastigmine patch in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease switched from Cholinesterase Inhibitors.

>>NCT01652222
The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy of the systematic application of the CONEM-BETA game in the subjective welfare of family caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease or other advanced stage dementia. The purpose of the study is to assess the efficacy of the systematic application of the CONEM-BETA game in the subjective welfare of family caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease or other advanced stage dementia.

>>NCT00477659
The objective of this study is to identify neural correlates of cognitive improvement after three months of donepezil HCl in subjects with mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD), measuring the Functional Hippocampus Connectivity Index (HCI) and Cerebral Blood Flow (CBF) Perfusion in the Medial Temporal Lobe network. The hypothesis is that donepezil HCl will improve MTL connectivity and CBF Perfusion in the MTL-projected target regions, which will significantly correlate with cognitive improvement in mild AD subjects.

>>NCT02612376
This study plans to establish a large bank of blood, cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), imaging and clinical data. These data and samples will be used for future research into the causes of Alzheimer's disease (AD), Down Syndrome (DS) and other diseases that cause thinking and memory problems. This future research will also study how treatments for these diseases work. This research may help develop new treatments for some diseases of the nervous system and help understand these diseases better.

>>NCT02420756
The Imaging Dementia-Evidence for Amyloid Scanning (IDEAS) Study will establish an open-label, longitudinal cohort study to assess the impact of amyloid PET on patient outcomes. The study will be performed in accordance with the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) policy of Coverage with Evidence Development (CED) in Medicare beneficiaries who meet the Appropriate Use Criteria (AUC) for amyloid PET (Johnson et al. 2013). Our hypothesis is that amyloid PET will decrease uncertainty and increase confidence in the underlying cause of cognitive impairment, that this will translate into earlier counseling and interventions in these domains and that these interventions will lead to improved outcomes. The Imaging Dementia-Evidence for Amyloid Scanning (IDEAS) Study will establish an open-label, longitudinal cohort study to assess the impact of amyloid PET on patient outcomes. The study will be performed in accordance with the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) policy of Coverage with Evidence Development (CED) in Medicare beneficiaries who meet the Appropriate Use Criteria (AUC) for amyloid PET (Johnson et al. 2013). Our hypothesis is that amyloid PET will decrease uncertainty and increase confidence in the underlying cause of cognitive impairment, that this will translate into earlier counseling and interventions in these domains and that these interventions will lead to improved outcomes.

>>NCT01823666
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is believed to be the early stage of dementia. The investigators assume that some psychological and imaging risks may predict the conversion. In the current longitudinal study, psychological and imaging data of people with MCI will be obtained at baseline and will be followed at 26 weeks and 52 weeks. The predictors will be found in comparison with controls. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is believed to be the early stage of dementia. The investigators assume that some psychological and imaging risks may predict the conversion. In the current longitudinal study, psychological and imaging data of people with MCI will be obtained at baseline and will be followed at 26 weeks and 52 weeks. The predictors will be found in comparison with controls.

>>NCT01504854
Resveratrol is derived from plants and is found in highest levels in red wine and the skin of red grapes. A recent study reported that monthly and weekly consumption of red wine is associated with a lower risk of dementia. There is compelling evidence that caloric restriction can improve overall health by activating a class of enzymes known as Sirtuins. Resveratrol is a substance found in some plants that directly activates sirtuins, mimicking the effects of caloric restriction and may affect regulatory pathways of diseases of aging, including Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 In this study, people with AD will be given either Resveratrol or placebo for 12 months to determine whether daily resveratrol therapy is beneficial in delaying or altering the deterioration of memory and daily functioning. Subjects age 50 and above with a diagnosis of probable AD may qualify for participation in this study. A small group of 15 participants will be asked to take part in a more detailed 24-hour Pharmacokinetic (PK) sub-study that will measure resveratrol levels over a 24 hour period. Resveratrol is derived from plants and is found in highest levels in red wine and the skin of red grapes. A recent study reported that monthly and weekly consumption of red wine is associated with a lower risk of dementia. There is compelling evidence that caloric restriction can improve overall health by activating a class of enzymes known as Sirtuins. Resveratrol is a substance found in some plants that directly activates sirtuins, mimicking the effects of caloric restriction and may affect regulatory pathways of diseases of aging, including Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 In this study, people with AD will be given either Resveratrol or placebo for 12 months to determine whether daily resveratrol therapy is beneficial in delaying or altering the deterioration of memory and daily functioning. Subjects age 50 and above with a diagnosis of probable AD may qualify for participation in this study. A small group of 15 participants will be asked to take part in a more detailed 24-hour Pharmacokinetic (PK) sub-study that will measure resveratrol levels over a 24 hour period.

>>NCT01194713
Introduction: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by neurodegeneration of the brain in the form of neurofibrillary tangles and plaques containing the amyloid-beta protein (Abeta). Recent animal studies have shown that extended wakefulness is associated with increased production of these Abeta proteins and that sleep leads to a marked fall in their production.
 Aim: The investigators aim to distinguish a similar effect of sleep disturbance on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Abeta levels in humans, which may point out sleep disturbance as an important factor in AD development.
 Methods: a study in 26 healthy male volunteers, measuring CSF Abeta levels during a sleep deprivation night and before and after a control night with unrestricted sleep.
 Expected results: The investigators expect sleep deprivation to lead to an increase in CSF Abeta levels, as compared to the levels in the control night.

>>NCT02403752
Specific Aim 1: To determine feasibility of a 20-minute dyadic exercise program for ambulatory individuals with dementia and caregivers living at home based on recruitment, adherence and retention. Investigators will conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 20 dyads (total N = 40) in groups of 5 randomized to 16-week group exercise classes and regular home practice or wait list in a cross-over design. Investigators will assess feasibility of enrollment and retention, the proportion of completed outcome measures and adherence by class attendance logs, caregiver-reported home practice logs and qualitative interviews to assess ease of implementation in the home environment. Investigators will explore feasibility of weekly phone calls to (potentially overwhelmed) caregivers and Fit-bit accelerometers as a measure for tracking home practice.
 Specific Aim 2: To collect preliminary effect size data for sample size calculation for a larger trial. Investigators will assess standard outcomes (such as the Short Physical Performance Battery and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale - cognitive subscale as primary outcomes for affected individuals; and Caregiver Burden Inventory for caregivers) commonly used in pharmacological studies of individuals with dementia at baseline, 16 and 32 weeks and calculate effect sizes (Cohen's d) for between-group differences in outcome changes in the 20 dyads of the RCT described in Specific Aim 1.
 Specific Aim 3: To explore the feasibility of using non-invasive Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) to assess regional cortical brain oxygenation and its sensitivity to change. Investigators will compare brain oxygenation variations before and after the exercise intervention during a memory task for the seniors with dementia. Specific Aim 1: To determine feasibility of a 20-minute dyadic exercise program for ambulatory individuals with dementia and caregivers living at home based on recruitment, adherence and retention. Investigators will conduct a pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 20 dyads (total N = 40) in groups of 5 randomized to 16-week group exercise classes and regular home practice or wait list in a cross-over design. Investigators will assess feasibility of enrollment and retention, the proportion of completed outcome measures and adherence by class attendance logs, caregiver-reported home practice logs and qualitative interviews to assess ease of implementation in the home environment. Investigators will explore feasibility of weekly phone calls to (potentially overwhelmed) caregivers and Fit-bit accelerometers as a measure for tracking home practice.
 Specific Aim 2: To collect preliminary effect size data for sample size calculation for a larger trial. Investigators will assess standard outcomes (such as the Short Physical Performance Battery and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale - cognitive subscale as primary outcomes for affected individuals; and Caregiver Burden Inventory for caregivers) commonly used in pharmacological studies of individuals with dementia at baseline, 16 and 32 weeks and calculate effect sizes (Cohen's d) for between-group differences in outcome changes in the 20 dyads of the RCT described in Specific Aim 1.
 Specific Aim 3: To explore the feasibility of using non-invasive Near-Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) to assess regional cortical brain oxygenation and its sensitivity to change. Investigators will compare brain oxygenation variations before and after the exercise intervention during a memory task for the seniors with dementia.

>>NCT00657813
The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I MNI-330, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged Alzheimer's (AD) subjects and healthy controls.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I MNI-330 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I MNI-330 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I MNI-330 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy controls The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I MNI-330, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged Alzheimer's (AD) subjects and healthy controls.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I MNI-330 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I MNI-330 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I MNI-330 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy controls.

>>NCT01268020
The underlying goal of this study is to assess [18F]-FMH3 PET imaging as a tool to evaluate the activity of the H3 receptor in the brain of Alzheimer Disease (AD) research participants The underlying goal of this study is to assess [18F]-FMH3 PET imaging as a tool to evaluate the activity of the H3 receptor in the brain of Alzheimer Disease (AD) research participants.

>>NCT01463384
Cognitively normal individuals, patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) or Alzheimer's Disease (AD) will undergo clinical screening, neuropsychological tests, blood and urine analyses, quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and proton (1H ) and carbon 13 (13C) magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Each individual will receive minocycline oral administration for 4 weeks initially, after which MRI, MRS and neuropsychological results will be recorded. If no adverse side effects occur, subjects will continue minocycline administration for an additional 5 months. Cognitively normal individuals, patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) or Alzheimer's Disease (AD) will undergo clinical screening, neuropsychological tests, blood and urine analyses, quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and proton (1H ) and carbon 13 (13C) magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). Each individual will receive minocycline oral administration for 4 weeks initially, after which MRI, MRS and neuropsychological results will be recorded. If no adverse side effects occur, subjects will continue minocycline administration for an additional 5 months.

>>NCT00965588
The purpose of this Phase I study is to determine whether the vaccine (UB 311), targeting the amyloid beta peptide (N-terminal amino acids, 1-14), is safe and immunogenic in patients diagnosed with mild or moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid beta was selected as the target antigen based on supporting evidence of the hypothesis that places the accumulation of amyloid beta at the initiating step of AD.

>>NCT01778946
This study will ascertain whether nicotine is safe and tolerable in DS patients, help with dose-ranging of nicotine in DS, look for evidence of enhancements in cognitive functioning and establish evidence for biological and behavioral correlates of nicotinic stimulation effects. The knowledge gained from the translational aspects of this project may also guide the application of new nicotinic drugs in DS and generate, for the first time, data on the importance of nicotinic receptor changes in the development of cognitive impairment in DS adults.
 Hypotheses:.
 - Transdermal nicotine treatment will be well tolerated out to one month by non-smoking DS patients without significant adverse effects.
 - Nicotine will enhance cognitive performance by one month compared to baseline and post-treatment testing.
 - Nicotine will enhance functioning detectable by clinician and/or informant ratings (pre-post). This study will ascertain whether nicotine is safe and tolerable in DS patients, help with dose-ranging of nicotine in DS, look for evidence of enhancements in cognitive functioning and establish evidence for biological and behavioral correlates of nicotinic stimulation effects. The knowledge gained from the translational aspects of this project may also guide the application of new nicotinic drugs in DS and generate, for the first time, data on the importance of nicotinic receptor changes in the development of cognitive impairment in DS adults.
 Hypotheses:.
 - Transdermal nicotine treatment will be well tolerated out to one month by non-smoking DS patients without significant adverse effects.
 - Nicotine will enhance cognitive performance by one month compared to baseline and post-treatment testing.
 - Nicotine will enhance functioning detectable by clinician and/or informant ratings (pre-post).

>>NCT00855686
The purpose of this exploratory study is to determine whether memantine can provide benefits on clinical symptoms in patients with Parkinson's Disease Dementia or Dementia with Lewy Bodies. The purpose of this exploratory study is to determine whether memantine can provide benefits on clinical symptoms in patients with Parkinson's Disease Dementia or Dementia with Lewy Bodies.

>>NCT01708304
The University of Washington's Northwest Research Group on Aging is partnering with Area Agencies on Aging (AAA) in Washington and Oregon to complete this translational investigation of RDAD (Reducing Disabilities in Alzheimer's Disease). RDAD is an evidence-based program with demonstrated efficacy in helping older adults with dementia maintain physical function and remain physically and mentally healthy. This study asks two questions: 1) Can AAA partners successfully translate and implement RDAD and 2) Is AAA implementation of RDAD effective in producing desired outcomes among agencies, providers and older adults with dementia and their family members. This study is being conducted in Washington and Oregon states.

>>NCT00230568
12-week, open-label study to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of donepezil hydrochloride in Hispanic patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in the U.S.

>>NCT02350127
Nearly 1 in 10 older Veterans have dementia, which is a devastating condition that leads to a progressive loss of independence and functional status. Currently available dementia medications do not alter the disease course. Therefore, it is critically important to identify effective strategies for helping older Veterans living with dementia to enhance their functional status and quality of life. The investigators have developed a novel, integrative exercise program called Preventing Loss of Independence through Exercise (PLIE) that incorporates elements from Eastern and Western exercise modalities and is designed to build and maintain the capacity to perform basic functional movements while increasing mindful body awareness and enhancing social connection. Pilot study results suggest that PLIE is associated with meaningful improvements in physical function, cognitive function and quality of life as well as reduced caregiver burden. The goal of the current study is to perform a full-scale randomized, controlled trial to test the efficacy of PLIE in older Veterans with dementia. Nearly 1 in 10 older Veterans have dementia, which is a devastating condition that leads to a progressive loss of independence and functional status. Currently available dementia medications do not alter the disease course. Therefore, it is critically important to identify effective strategies for helping older Veterans living with dementia to enhance their functional status and quality of life. The investigators have developed a novel, integrative exercise program called Preventing Loss of Independence through Exercise (PLIE) that incorporates elements from Eastern and Western exercise modalities and is designed to build and maintain the capacity to perform basic functional movements while increasing mindful body awareness and enhancing social connection. Pilot study results suggest that PLIE is associated with meaningful improvements in physical function, cognitive function and quality of life as well as reduced caregiver burden. The goal of the current study is to perform a full-scale randomized, controlled trial to test the efficacy of PLIE in older Veterans with dementia.

>>NCT02221622
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of allopregnanolone, a naturally occurring brain steroid, in mild cognitive impairment and early Alzheimer's disease participants. The primary goal is to determine the maximally tolerated dose. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of allopregnanolone, a naturally occurring brain steroid, in mild cognitive impairment and early Alzheimer's disease participants. The primary goal is to determine the maximally tolerated dose.

>>NCT01353430
The investigators are researching families with inherited inclusion body myopathy (IBM) and/or Paget disease of bone (PDB) and/or dementia (FTD) which is also called IBMPFD. IBMPFD is caused by mutations in the VCP gene. Our main goal is to understand how changes in the VCP gene cause the muscle, bone and cognitive problems associated with the disease.
 The investigators are collecting biological specimen such as blood and urine samples, family and medical histories, questionnaire data of patients with a personal or family history of VCP associated disease. Participants do not need to have all symptoms listed above in order to qualify. A select group of participants may be invited to travel to University of California, Irvine for a two day program of local procedures such as an MRI and bone scan.
 Samples are coded to maintain confidentiality. Travel is not necessary except for families invited for additional testing.

>>NCT00987220
It is hypothesized that the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, donepezil, will increase acute cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) actylcholine levels in healthy volunteers following a 5mg single dose oral administration. It is hypothesized that the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, donepezil, will increase acute cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) actylcholine levels in healthy volunteers following a 5mg single dose oral administration.

>>NCT01055561
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of acupuncture for patients with BPSD & healthy volunteers. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of acupuncture for patients with BPSD & healthy volunteers.

>>NCT00391833
We investigate the clinical efficacy of Panax ginseng in Alzheimers disease (AD). We investigate the clinical efficacy of Panax ginseng in Alzheimers disease (AD).

>>NCT01845636
Odor identification deficits, which are a result of early Alzheimer's Disease (AD) pathology in the olfactory bulb and tract as well as olfactory projection areas in the medial temporal lobe (entorhinal and piriform cortex and hippocampus), lateral and central orbitofrontal cortex and several other regions, occur in AD and strongly predict mild cognitive impairment (MCI) conversion to AD. Our pilot data, along with converging findings in the literature, suggests that odor identification deficits, both incremental change over time and change in response to an anticholinergic challenge, may be clinically simple, relatively inexpensive, predictors of cognitive improvement with acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (ACheI) treatment with potential clinical implications for predicting improvement and monitoring ACheI therapy. Odor identification deficits, which are a result of early Alzheimer's Disease (AD) pathology in the olfactory bulb and tract as well as olfactory projection areas in the medial temporal lobe (entorhinal and piriform cortex and hippocampus), lateral and central orbitofrontal cortex and several other regions, occur in AD and strongly predict mild cognitive impairment (MCI) conversion to AD. Our pilot data, along with converging findings in the literature, suggests that odor identification deficits, both incremental change over time and change in response to an anticholinergic challenge, may be clinically simple, relatively inexpensive, predictors of cognitive improvement with acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (ACheI) treatment with potential clinical implications for predicting improvement and monitoring ACheI therapy.

>>NCT01883648
This is a randomized, cross over study to determine the efficacy of coconut oil in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. This is a randomized, cross over study to determine the efficacy of coconut oil in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01179373
The primary objective of this trial is to assess the ability of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation with H coil to prefrontal cortex , with an addition of cognitive brain training, to improve cognitive performance in patients with Alzheimer's disease which received drug treatment. This study is a single-center, double-blind 4 months duration trial. The primary objective of this trial is to assess the ability of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation with H coil to prefrontal cortex , with an addition of cognitive brain training, to improve cognitive performance in patients with Alzheimer's disease which received drug treatment. This study is a single-center, double-blind 4 months duration trial.

>>NCT02134041
We are extending the researches of Taiwan neurosurgery traumatic brain injury (TBI) database which is led by Professor WT Chiu in Taipei Medical University and will recruit mild TBI (mTBI) participants who have ever been registered in the database. This database has been established for over 15 years and contains the information of over 150000 patients. It is one of the largest TBI database in the world.
 TBI usually results from traffic accidents, falls or violence events. Most of the victims are young people and the victims suffer from life-threatening and mental-physical deficits. Mild TBI (mTBI) usually was neglected before because its symptoms, signs are mild and mTBI patients usually were not obtained enough initial treatment. Therefore, mTBI might result in long-term cognitive and affective impairments, such as depression, indifference, anxiety, memory impairment, loss of attention and executive function. These late effects not only decrease the life quality of patients and their family but also increase the social and medical burden.
 Recent epidemiology studies have pointed out that TBI would increase the risk for dementia, especially Alzheimer disease (AD) by 2-4 times. However, the association between TBI severity, number of repeats, genetic factors and onset of AD remains further investigation.
 Amyloid- (A) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are the pathological hallmarks for AD. Accumulation of A is considered to be the first step of pathophysilogy of AD. Compelling researches have supported TBI accelerates the formation and accumulation of A. These findings could link TBI with AD but the previous researches had limitations. There was lack of mTBI pathology data so the impacts of mTBI on A accumulation were still obscure. By amyloid-PET, we could study the effects of mTBI on the accumulation of A and this tool could be helpful for understanding the real impacts and pathophysiological mechanisms of mTBI on AD. We are extending the researches of Taiwan neurosurgery traumatic brain injury (TBI) database which is led by Professor WT Chiu in Taipei Medical University and will recruit mild TBI (mTBI) participants who have ever been registered in the database. This database has been established for over 15 years and contains the information of over 150000 patients. It is one of the largest TBI database in the world.
 TBI usually results from traffic accidents, falls or violence events. Most of the victims are young people and the victims suffer from life-threatening and mental-physical deficits. Mild TBI (mTBI) usually was neglected before because its symptoms, signs are mild and mTBI patients usually were not obtained enough initial treatment. Therefore, mTBI might result in long-term cognitive and affective impairments, such as depression, indifference, anxiety, memory impairment, loss of attention and executive function. These late effects not only decrease the life quality of patients and their family but also increase the social and medical burden.
 Recent epidemiology studies have pointed out that TBI would increase the risk for dementia, especially Alzheimer disease (AD) by 2-4 times. However, the association between TBI severity, number of repeats, genetic factors and onset of AD remains further investigation.
 Amyloid- (A) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are the pathological hallmarks for AD. Accumulation of A is considered to be the first step of pathophysilogy of AD. Compelling researches have supported TBI accelerates the formation and accumulation of A. These findings could link TBI with AD but the previous researches had limitations. There was lack of mTBI pathology data so the impacts of mTBI on A accumulation were still obscure. By amyloid-PET, we could study the effects of mTBI on the accumulation of A and this tool could be helpful for understanding the real impacts and pathophysiological mechanisms of mTBI on AD.

>>NCT02600130
This is a Phase I, prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study designed to test the safety and efficacy of LMSCs (Longeveron Mesenchymal Stem Cells) for the treatment of subjects with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease. This is a Phase I, prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded study designed to test the safety and efficacy of LMSCs (Longeveron Mesenchymal Stem Cells) for the treatment of subjects with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01822951
The objective of this trial is the global risk-benefit assessment of Cerebrolysin as compared to donepezil in patients with mild to moderate dementia of Alzheimer's Type (DAT). In addition, a traditional approach will be taken based on the evaluation of the separate risk and benefit domains in comparison with donepezil.
 Global risk-benefit as compared to donepezil will be analyzed by determining whether the Cerebrolysin group shows a statistically significant non-inferiority with regard to the combined primary safety and efficacy endpoints (weighted multivariate ensemble). The endpoints will be combined by a global multivariate non-parametric procedure, weighting the safety and efficacy part 50:50. The objective of this trial is the global risk-benefit assessment of Cerebrolysin as compared to donepezil in patients with mild to moderate dementia of Alzheimer's Type (DAT). In addition, a traditional approach will be taken based on the evaluation of the separate risk and benefit domains in comparison with donepezil.
 Global risk-benefit as compared to donepezil will be analyzed by determining whether the Cerebrolysin group shows a statistically significant non-inferiority with regard to the combined primary safety and efficacy endpoints (weighted multivariate ensemble). The endpoints will be combined by a global multivariate non-parametric procedure, weighting the safety and efficacy part 50:50.

>>NCT00377715
This study will evaluate the safety and potential benefit of Dimebon as compared to placebo in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00104013
The purpose of this study is to assess xaliproden's potential capacity of slowing the deterioration of cognitive and global functions in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The patients participating in this study will take orally once daily xaliproden or placebo (inactive substance pill).

>>NCT02431468
This is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study comparing different doses of bryostatin for the treatment of moderately severe to severe Alzheimer's disease. The study is 15 weeks in duration, including a safety and efficacy evaluation 30 days after the last dose of study drug. This is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study comparing different doses of bryostatin for the treatment of moderately severe to severe Alzheimer's disease. The study is 15 weeks in duration, including a safety and efficacy evaluation 30 days after the last dose of study drug.

>>NCT00104442
Alzheimer's disease is a medical illness that damages the brain and causes problems with memory, mood and behavior. A substance called acetylcholine (ACh), which is naturally produced in the body, plays an important role in the normal functioning of the brain. In subjects with Alzheimer's disease, the level of ACh is greatly reduced. Currently, there are three commonly prescribed drugs used for treating the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease by helping to maintain the level of ACh in the brain. This study will evaluate how much each of these drugs changes the levels of certain brain chemicals that are known to or may play an important role in, Alzheimer's disease and its symptoms.

>>NCT02356055
People with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias present with changes in how they think, move and emotionally respond to daily life situations. While type of dementia will dictate how severe certain symptoms are, all people with dementia will report a gradual change in how they function in daily life skills. Losing the ability to do daily life tasks, such as using a cell phone, balance a checkbook or get dressed in the morning signifies loss for both the person with dementia and their caregiver. Caregivers that assist with daily life tasks report more depression and anxiety, as well as a higher burden of care. People with dementia that lose the ability to perform daily tasks report more depression and decreased satisfaction with life. Despite gains in research, researchers are still missing important pieces that will improve rehabilitation interventions for improving daily life skills.
 In order to address the needs of people with dementia, an intervention called Skill-building through Task-Oriented Motor Practice (STOMP) was developed by an occupational therapist. Our team proposes that improvement in daily life skills is possible under certain circumstances. First, the daily life task a person is addressing in rehabilitation should be personally-meaningful and should also be the task practiced in therapy which is called "task-oriented training". For example, a person that is having trouble making a sandwich should practice making a sandwich. Second, the investigators propose that people with dementia need a lot of "correct practice" so that the brain has time to "rewire" how to do the task correctly. Therefore, when patients practice tasks using STOMP, investigators do not allow our participants to make errors and patients practice for long periods of time. Investigators also incorporate and provide new technology into training such as medication reminder alarms and photo phones which allow you to dial a number by choosing a loved one's picture.
 In this pilot study, the investigators want to look more closely at the how the amount of time you practice influences study outcomes. The investigators believe that the findings from this study will support our belief that more time in therapy is needed to enhance how someone with dementia learns. People with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias present with changes in how they think, move and emotionally respond to daily life situations. While type of dementia will dictate how severe certain symptoms are, all people with dementia will report a gradual change in how they function in daily life skills. Losing the ability to do daily life tasks, such as using a cell phone, balance a checkbook or get dressed in the morning signifies loss for both the person with dementia and their caregiver. Caregivers that assist with daily life tasks report more depression and anxiety, as well as a higher burden of care. People with dementia that lose the ability to perform daily tasks report more depression and decreased satisfaction with life. Despite gains in research, researchers are still missing important pieces that will improve rehabilitation interventions for improving daily life skills.
 In order to address the needs of people with dementia, an intervention called Skill-building through Task-Oriented Motor Practice (STOMP) was developed by an occupational therapist. Our team proposes that improvement in daily life skills is possible under certain circumstances. First, the daily life task a person is addressing in rehabilitation should be personally-meaningful and should also be the task practiced in therapy which is called "task-oriented training". For example, a person that is having trouble making a sandwich should practice making a sandwich. Second, the investigators propose that people with dementia need a lot of "correct practice" so that the brain has time to "rewire" how to do the task correctly. Therefore, when patients practice tasks using STOMP, investigators do not allow our participants to make errors and patients practice for long periods of time. Investigators also incorporate and provide new technology into training such as medication reminder alarms and photo phones which allow you to dial a number by choosing a loved one's picture.
 In this pilot study, the investigators want to look more closely at the how the amount of time you practice influences study outcomes. The investigators believe that the findings from this study will support our belief that more time in therapy is needed to enhance how someone with dementia learns.

>>NCT01312363
The investigators plan to see what factors can influence the durability of Exelon patch treatment in Korean patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 Based on these results, the investigators will find the ways to maximize the effect and durability of Exelon patch on Korean patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 After finishing this study, the investigators are going to present the study results at the international and national academic meetings or conferences.
 Also the investigators expect that they can publish the result in a journal of in the field of neurology or dementia till the winter of 2010. The investigators plan to see what factors can influence the durability of Exelon patch treatment in Korean patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 Based on these results, the investigators will find the ways to maximize the effect and durability of Exelon patch on Korean patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 After finishing this study, the investigators are going to present the study results at the international and national academic meetings or conferences.
 Also the investigators expect that they can publish the result in a journal of in the field of neurology or dementia till the winter of 2010.

>>NCT01059877
This study will employ a double-blind, placebo-controlled approach to assess the effect of 1072nm infrared (IR) phototherapy on the behavioral and cognitive symptoms associated with early and mid-stage dementia. This study will employ a double-blind, placebo-controlled approach to assess the effect of 1072nm infrared (IR) phototherapy on the behavioral and cognitive symptoms associated with early and mid-stage dementia.

>>NCT02240693
The study is designed to compare the effects of 4 different doses of orally administered BI 409306 to placebo in patients with Alzheimers Disease.

>>NCT01397578
This is a Phase II, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the effects of MABT5102A on brain amyloid burden (as assessed by amyloid PET imaging) and other biomarkers in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00500500
The aim of this study is to measure the effect of EGb 761 versus placebo on the ratio of the isoform of the protein precursor of beta amyloid platelets, in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01724151
The proposes of this study are.
 1. To understand the physical activities of patients with cognitive impairment in Taiwan and construct the validity and reliability of the physical activity questionnaire and actigram in this population.
 2. To understand the relation between brain structure (brain tractography and resting state functional MRI) and cognitive and physical functions of patients with cognitive impairment, the capability of activity and social engagement (including quality of life).
 3. To understand the efficacy of exercise on the brain structure (brain tractography and resting state functional MRI), cognitive and physical functions, the capability of activity and social engagement (including quality of life) of the patients with cognitive impairment.
 The study aims to establish the data base of physical activity of patients with cognitive impairment in Taiwan. We will also analyze the efficacy of exercise with ICF model on physical function, physical activity and social engagements to provide an optimized design of exercise program for patients with cognitive impairment in the future. The proposes of this study are.
 1. To understand the physical activities of patients with cognitive impairment in Taiwan and construct the validity and reliability of the physical activity questionnaire and actigram in this population.
 2. To understand the relation between brain structure (brain tractography and resting state functional MRI) and cognitive and physical functions of patients with cognitive impairment, the capability of activity and social engagement (including quality of life).
 3. To understand the efficacy of exercise on the brain structure (brain tractography and resting state functional MRI), cognitive and physical functions, the capability of activity and social engagement (including quality of life) of the patients with cognitive impairment.
 The study aims to establish the data base of physical activity of patients with cognitive impairment in Taiwan. We will also analyze the efficacy of exercise with ICF model on physical function, physical activity and social engagements to provide an optimized design of exercise program for patients with cognitive impairment in the future.

>>NCT01481961
The aim is to examine the effect of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) applied at the anodic left Cortex DorsoLateral PreFrontal (CDLPF) of patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 This study included 15 patients treated with rTMS and whose medication reference is stabilized for 3 months by IAChE. Patients with early AD or related disease will be selected in the MCRR of Besanon and the psychiatric department of the University Hospital of Besanon. After giving informed consent, patients will be evaluated by a psychiatrist using the Mattis Clinical Demantia Rate (CDR), the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS), State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAMA). The complete assessment takes 40 minutes. A second evaluation will be realized by a neuropsychologist takes around 120 minutes using Mattis CDR, Grober Free and Cued Selective Reminding Test, Trail Making Test (TMT), Crossing of Test (COT), Isaacs Set Test (STI) , Clock-Drawing Test (COT), Signoret's Battery of Cognitive Efficacy (BEC96), Rey-complex figure test-copy and Picture naming 80 items test (DO80).
 Each rTMS session runs 20 minutes during which pulse trains of 5 seconds of 10 Hz spaced 25 seconds (2 trains of pulses per minute or 40 pulse trains per session) will be delivered. A psychometric assessment will be conducted again at the end of treatment week and one month after stopping treatment. A neuropsychometric assessment will be conducted one month after stopping the treatment. Scales of comfort and acceptability will also be proposed to the patient to determine whether any gene is caused by this treatment. Moreover a questionnaire will be proposed to the caregivers (at baseline, at the end of the treatment and 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks after stopping the sessions) using Resource Utilisation Dementia (RUD), Apathy Inventory (AI), Activities of Daily Living (ADL) scale, Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) scale, Quality of Life in Alzheimer's disease (QoL-AD) scale, Questionnaire of recent change of the personality (CP6).
 The population of this study will be comprised of patients between 60 to 85 years-old with early Alzheimer's characterized according to NINCDS-ADRADA criteria. These patients will be recruited on a voluntary basis, after notification and consent in the research center. This study was conducted over a period of 15 months.

>>NCT01122329
This study will examine the brain metabolic effects of AC-1202 (Axona), a medical food for Alzheimer's disease. Subjects who meet entry criteria will undergo H215O positron emission tomography prior to and 90 minutes after consumption of Axona at baseline and then again after 45 days of treatment. Cognitive testing will also be conducted at baseline and day 45.

>>NCT01142336
A year-long randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of simvastatin to see if it produces beneficial changes in cerebral spinal fluid proteins associated with Alzheimer's disease. A year-long randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of simvastatin to see if it produces beneficial changes in cerebral spinal fluid proteins associated with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02221947
This study is being done to evaluate the safety, tolerability and potential effectiveness of a new investigational drug, bryostatin 1, in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study is being done to evaluate the safety, tolerability and potential effectiveness of a new investigational drug, bryostatin 1, in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01325259
Rationale: improving the early detection of AD at prodromal pre-dementia stages has become a major matter of concern. There is now an important body of literature stating that early isolated cognitive deficits (Mild Cognitive Impairment-MCI-) predict the risk of developing AD. Several biomarkers are now available : specific and sensitive neuropsychological assessments, morphometric evaluation of hippocampal volume and white matter changes by MRI, cerebrospinal fluid or plasma dosage of Ab fragments and tau proteins, assessment of brain glucose hypometabolism in temporo-parietal regions with PET [F18]FDG. However, PET imaging using labelled compounds specifically binding to APs has been suggested to improve the diagnostic reliability and to potentially help in shortening the delay until formal clinical diagnosis of AD. F18 AV45 is a new radiotracer which kinetics characteristics allows 10 to 15 minutes acquisition 50 to 60 minutes post injection.
 Objectives: The primary objective of the study is to compare F18 AV45 cortical uptake in AD, MCI patients and Healthy Controls.
 Secondary objectives will be to compare cortical uptake of F18 AV45 in MCI subject who will have convert toward dementia versus those who will not, at two year follow-up period, to compare level of 18F-AV45 cortical uptake with neuropsychological testing, PET FDG hypometabolism, ApoE genotype.
 Method: Prospective multicentric study. 65 patients expected to enter the study.
 Primary outcome measure: Standard Uptake Volume ratios.

>>NCT01677754
This phase II, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of RO4602522 in patients with moderate severity Alzheimer disease. Patients who are taking background therapy of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors alone or in combination with memantine for at least 4 months before screening will be randomized to receive either one of two doses of RO4602522 or placebo for 12 months.

>>NCT02195596
A program that combines high intensity aerobic exercise (<85% of Heart Rate Reserve) with resistance, progressive and moderate intensity intervals, carried out in primary care, is effective in terms of a smaller increase in respect to the baseline measurement in the total score of the ADAS cognitive section (Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive section),in the control group that receives an intervention similar to low intensity (30-40% of Heart rate reserve).
 We Expect a difference of at least 3 points between the means of the increments between the intervention and control group. A program that combines high intensity aerobic exercise (<85% of Heart Rate Reserve) with resistance, progressive and moderate intensity intervals, carried out in primary care, is effective in terms of a smaller increase in respect to the baseline measurement in the total score of the ADAS cognitive section (Alzheimer Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive section),in the control group that receives an intervention similar to low intensity (30-40% of Heart rate reserve).
 We Expect a difference of at least 3 points between the means of the increments between the intervention and control group.

>>NCT02359552
This is a Phase II, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group, proof of concept three-site study, to evaluate the effect of Rasagiline in the regional brain metabolism on 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET). This is a Phase II, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group, proof of concept three-site study, to evaluate the effect of Rasagiline in the regional brain metabolism on 18F-2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET).

>>NCT01181921
The purpose of this study is to assess the modulating effect of galantamine on circadian rhythm in patients with moderate Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the modulating effect of galantamine on circadian rhythm in patients with moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00018343
This study is designed to evaluate the potential beneficial effects of estrogen on cognitive function of women with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00366483
To assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of single and multiple ascending oral doses of lecozotan SR in healthy young and elderly subjects.

>>NCT00117403
The purpose of this study is to examine the safety and effectiveness of two anti-oxidant treatment regimens in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The anti-oxidant treatments include vitamin E + C + alpha-lipoic acid and Coenzyme Q (CoQ). The purpose of this study is to examine the safety and effectiveness of two anti-oxidant treatment regimens in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The anti-oxidant treatments include vitamin E + C + alpha-lipoic acid and Coenzyme Q (CoQ).

>>NCT00295152
The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of community occupational therapy in older patients with mild ot moderate dementia and their primary caregivers. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of community occupational therapy in older patients with mild ot moderate dementia and their primary caregivers.

>>NCT01834716
5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease (AD) costing $185 billion annually, while 15 million caregivers look after these individuals. AD is the sixth leading cause of death but the only one in the top 10 causes that cannot be prevented.
 This study may demonstrate exercise in an amount attainable by many will be preventative in asymptomatic individuals including those with brain Abeta deposition already that are at impending risk of the disease. Sperling and colleagues(1) coined the research term AD-pathophysiological process (abbreviated AD-P) for use in studies such as the intervention in this proposal.
 Our long term goal is to assess whether exercise may be preventative of AD at older ages (=73, mean=75), when more than 40% of cognitively normal persons have A beta deposits, the hallmark of AD pathogenesis, in their brains. In a NIH RO1 grant submission the investigators proposed to conduct a partially blinded controlled preventative trial in 150 cognitively normal individuals, randomized in a 2:1 ratio to 18 months of moderate aerobic exercise versus 18 months of toning and stretching. All persons would have baseline and 18 month brain Abeta PET studies. The study was designed to determine whether an exercise intervention in persons mean age 75 would lead to decreased brain Abeta accumulation, increased hippocampal volume, improved cognition and improved dementia-related biomarkers compared to the control group. The study would be unique in that the investigators would be able to examine if aerobic exercise slows the accumulation of brain Abeta in an older population, at which time Abeta deposition is common. If successful, this would provide an additional motivating reason to recommend exercise for most elderly persons.

>>NCT00820937
The aim of this study is to improve the diagnostic of Lewy body dementia by combining the scintigraphy (SPECT) usig a spcific transporter and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The aim of this study is to improve the diagnostic of Lewy body dementia by combining the scintigraphy (SPECT) usig a spcific transporter and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

>>NCT01190800
The purpose of this study is to assess decision-making capacity in persons with Alzheimer's disease. First, our goal is to validate four French capacity assessment tools for persons with Alzheimer's Disease : a French version of the Competency Assessment Tool for Consent to Treatment and of the Competency Assessment Tool for Voting, two questionnaires assessing the capacity to appoint a proxy either to consent to treatment or to vote. Second, once validated, we plan these questionnaires to study decision-making abilities and their determinants in persons with Alzheimer's disease and control subjects. The purpose of this study is to assess decision-making capacity in persons with Alzheimer's disease. First, our goal is to validate four French capacity assessment tools for persons with Alzheimer's Disease : a French version of the Competency Assessment Tool for Consent to Treatment and of the Competency Assessment Tool for Voting, two questionnaires assessing the capacity to appoint a proxy either to consent to treatment or to vote. Second, once validated, we plan these questionnaires to study decision-making abilities and their determinants in persons with Alzheimer's disease and control subjects.

>>NCT00602680
The primary objective of the study is to assess the effect of 3 doses of SSR180711C on cognitive performance in patients with mild Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Other objectives are to assess the safety/tolerability of SSR180711C in patients with mild AD.

>>NCT00933608
Recent data show that marked cell damage precedes the clinical manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Hence, targeting populations at risk with pharmacological interventions is a possible strategy to lessen the burden of the disease. Cognitively normal individuals with subjective memory complaints (SMC) manifest biological characteristics consistent with early AD and are at risk for future cognitive decline. Family history of AD also constitutes a risk. In a previous study the investigators showed that memantine slows down the accumulation of phosphorylated tau in normal SMC subjects. Using a multivoxel high field MR spectroscopy (MRS) technique, the investigators also demonstrated that memantine decreased hippocampal glutamate. Both these findings may be consistent with the drug's anti-excitotoxic activity. In this new project the investigators propose to treat a sample of 12 presymptomatic individuals at risk (SMC and family history of AD) with memantine. This will be a double blind, placebo controlled study with a control group (12 non-treated subjects). The investigators will determine whether the effects of memantine as assessed by cognitive performance and MRS are present after 4 months of treatment and persist 2 months after discontinuation. MRS will be used to evaluate the effect of memantine on levels of the neurotransmitter glutamate and neuronal viability marker N-acetylaspartate (NAA) in the hippocampus. The investigators will test the following hypotheses:.
 1. In subjects with SMC, memantine has modifying effects on brain biochemistry as reflected in MRS reductions in glutamate (reduced excitotoxicity) and increases in NAA (neuronal integrity).
 2. The effects of the drug persist (as a marker of sustained neuroprotection) and can be measured 2 months after discontinuation of the treatment.

>>NCT00947934
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Today no treatment had shown consistent efficacy to stop or slow down the disease. Recent report of enhancement of memory abilities by bilateral chronic deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the fornix in the hypothalamus suggests that neuromodulation of circuits involved in memory processes may have therapeutic implications in AD patients with memory decline.
 The primary objectives of this prospective, non-controlled, pilot study are to assess the feasibility and safety of DBS in AD patients with mild cognitive and memory impairment and to evaluate the efficacy of DBS to slow down or stabilize this decline. Five patients with AD (DSM IV) diagnosed less than two years, with mild cognitive decline (MMSE 20-24) and specific impairment of episodic memory will be included in a 2-year period. The evaluation criteria for feasibility will be the proportion of patients undergoing the procedure, chronic stimulation and evaluation process without adverse event (AE). Efficacy will be evaluated using numerous cognitive and memory testing including classical instrument used in AD clinical trials. Changes in behavioral scales and changes in hypothalamic functions (clinical, biological and hormonal assessment) will evaluate safety and tolerance. Clinical, neuro-psychological, biological and imaging assessment will be performed 3 and one month before and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Bilateral electrodes (Medtronic 3389) will be implanted, by MR-guided frame-based stereotaxy, in the hypothalamic part of the fornix and then connected to the generator (Kinetra, Medtronic). Chronic high-frequency stimulation will be delivered immediately after surgery.
 The investigators expect to slow down or to stabilize the spontaneous decline of MMSE and ADAS scores after 6, 12 and 24 months of stimulation. In case of efficacy, DBS might offer to AD patient the possibility to slow down/stabilize their symptoms, which no other treatment can currently offer and to increase their quality of life. Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Today no treatment had shown consistent efficacy to stop or slow down the disease. Recent report of enhancement of memory abilities by bilateral chronic deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the fornix in the hypothalamus suggests that neuromodulation of circuits involved in memory processes may have therapeutic implications in AD patients with memory decline.
 The primary objectives of this prospective, non-controlled, pilot study are to assess the feasibility and safety of DBS in AD patients with mild cognitive and memory impairment and to evaluate the efficacy of DBS to slow down or stabilize this decline. Five patients with AD (DSM IV) diagnosed less than two years, with mild cognitive decline (MMSE 20-24) and specific impairment of episodic memory will be included in a 2-year period. The evaluation criteria for feasibility will be the proportion of patients undergoing the procedure, chronic stimulation and evaluation process without adverse event (AE). Efficacy will be evaluated using numerous cognitive and memory testing including classical instrument used in AD clinical trials. Changes in behavioral scales and changes in hypothalamic functions (clinical, biological and hormonal assessment) will evaluate safety and tolerance. Clinical, neuro-psychological, biological and imaging assessment will be performed 3 and one month before and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Bilateral electrodes (Medtronic 3389) will be implanted, by MR-guided frame-based stereotaxy, in the hypothalamic part of the fornix and then connected to the generator (Kinetra, Medtronic). Chronic high-frequency stimulation will be delivered immediately after surgery.
 The investigators expect to slow down or to stabilize the spontaneous decline of MMSE and ADAS scores after 6, 12 and 24 months of stimulation. In case of efficacy, DBS might offer to AD patient the possibility to slow down/stabilize their symptoms, which no other treatment can currently offer and to increase their quality of life.

>>NCT02707978
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate tau distribution in the brain of subjects with: FTD caused by different genetic mutations, any mutation carriers (with or without symptoms), any non-mutation carrier, any sporadic FTD, normal controls.

>>NCT01231971
The purpose of this study is to build upon the information obtained in the original Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI1) and ADNI-GO (Grand Opportunity; a study funded through an NIH grant under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act), to examine how brain imaging technology can be used with other tests to measure the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). ADNI2 seeks to inform the neuroscience of AD. This information will aid in the early detection of AD and in measuring the effectiveness of treatments in future clinical trials. The purpose of this study is to build upon the information obtained in the original Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI1) and ADNI-GO (Grand Opportunity; a study funded through an NIH grant under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act), to examine how brain imaging technology can be used with other tests to measure the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). ADNI2 seeks to inform the neuroscience of AD. This information will aid in the early detection of AD and in measuring the effectiveness of treatments in future clinical trials.

>>NCT02719938
The objective of this study is to generate preliminary data for a large multi-site randomized clinical trial of a model of palliative care consultation for patients with advanced dementia and for their family caregivers. The objective of this study is to generate preliminary data for a large multi-site randomized clinical trial of a model of palliative care consultation for patients with advanced dementia and for their family caregivers.

>>NCT02293915
The primary purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy and safety of Sodium Oligo-mannurarate (GV-971) in 36-week treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01958437
Remembering how to travel from one location to another is critical in everyday life, yet this vital ability declines with normal aging and can be further affected by conditions that disproportionately affect the elderly, such as vision loss or progressive dementia. Human and animal research has shown that two distinct memory systems interact during navigation. The first, referred to as allocentric navigation, is very flexible and uses spatial knowledge of key features or landmarks to develop and use a mental map of the environment. This approach involves brain regions that are critical for new learning and memory but that decline with age. The second, referred to as egocentric navigation, is inflexible and relies on "habit" memories that link specific features with specific directions. This approach relies on brain regions that are critical for "automatic" responses and that are relatively unaffected by age.
 The main problem is that allocentric navigation declines with age and is accompanied increased dependence on egocentric navigation. This change increases the risk of becoming disoriented or "lost" when traveling in unfamiliar areas or even when traveling new routes in familiar areas. Therefore, the main goal of this project is to examine whether non-invasive brain stimulation, specifically transcranial direct current stimulation, can improve allocentric navigation in healthy older adults and patients with mild cognitive impairment.
 Participants will complete two functional magnetic resonance imaging sessions while learning new environments. Before one of these sessions, participants will receive active brain stimulation over the parietal cortex. Before the other session, participants will receive sham brain stimulation over the parietal cortex. The effects of this stimulation will be evaluated using both an allocentric and an egocentric memory test. Physiologic effects will be evaluated using both task-based and resting-state MRI.

>>NCT00164749
The purpose of this study is to develop procedures for testing the effectiveness of curcumin on slowing Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. The purpose of this study is to develop procedures for testing the effectiveness of curcumin on slowing Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression.

>>NCT01002586
Alzheimer's Dementia (AD) contributes to poor balance, impaired gait and functional status, thereby, increasing the risk of falls. AD is an independent risk factor for hip fractures. Those with balance problems and gait impairments are at higher risk for long term placement and death related to falls. Gait impairments in those with dementia include shortened step length, increased double support time, step to step variability and decreased gait speed. These gait impairments worsen with dual tasking probably due to common brain areas involved in gait and other cognitive tasks.
 Exercise interventions improve gait and balance in the elderly. In subjects with existing AD, physical activity has shown to prevent further cognitive decline and improve quality of life and prevent falls. However, it is difficult to engage patients with AD in long term exercise programs. The expense of physical therapy limits its easy accessibility. Use of everyday technology might bridge this gap by providing high level of engagement via the use of multimedia while providing a cost effective alternative. Wii Fit is one such multimedia platform.
 Wii fit is a Nintendo gaming console used for aerobics, strength training and balance activities. This device includes a balance board that senses weight and shifts in movement and balance. Virtual trainers talk the user through the activity while tracking the user's progress.
 Although some skilled nursing facilities have started using Wii game system adjunct to routine physical therapy, there have not been any studies. Anecdotal reports note improvement in balance and social benefits using the Wii Fit program. Physical therapists report the ability to customize Wii for each patient. Wii Fit can be successfully used in a cognitively impaired population. A unique feature of this approach is the enjoyment and enthusiasm that many patients derive which is reflected in high levels of engagement.
 The invesitgators propose an 8 week prospective randomized study with the treatment group receiving the exercise program delivered by Wii-Fit system and the comparison arm receiving a walking exercise program in a community dwelling setting. Subjects in each arm will participate for 30 minutes daily five days a week.

>>NCT02018913
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) are the most common forms of dementia. Yet, the cause of these diseases is still unknown. A potentially important initiating factor is a disrupted blood-brain barrier. This can initiate cerebral microangiopathy, which has frequently been associated with VaD. Nevertheless, also in most AD patients a substantial increase of vascular damage has been observed. The present study investigates the correlation between blood-brain-barrier breakdown and cognitive decline in AD and VaD. An innovative dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI scan that has recently been developed and tested at our institute, will be used to measure blood-brain barrier permeability.
 Objective: We will investigate the relationship between this permeability measure and (i) cognitive performance and (ii) the status of MRI visible cerebrovascular pathology (i.e. white matter hyperintensities, lacunar infarctions, microbleeds) in the most common forms of dementia.

>>NCT02126514
This study will be an open-label, non-randomized, absorption, metabolism and excretion study to evaluate the mass balance, metabolite profiles and rates and routes of elimination of [14C]-AZD3293 and derived metabolites following administration as a single 100-mg (containing approximately 150 Ci) oral dose (as an oral solution) This study will be an open-label, non-randomized, absorption, metabolism and excretion study to evaluate the mass balance, metabolite profiles and rates and routes of elimination of [14C]-AZD3293 and derived metabolites following administration as a single 100-mg (containing approximately 150 Ci) oral dose (as an oral solution).

>>NCT00082602
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of an extended release formulation of the drug galantamine using a rapid dose escalation regimen. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of an extended release formulation of the drug galantamine using a rapid dose escalation regimen.

>>NCT02521818
This trial seeks to establish the feasibility of implementing a ketogenic, modified Atkins diet (MAD) to older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or early Alzheimer's disease (AD) living in the community. A secondary aim is to determine whether adherence to the MAD results in better cognitive test scores than adherence to a non-ketogenic control diet. A final aim is to determine the role of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype in participants' response to the MAD. Participants will be randomly assigned to a 12-week trial of either the MAD or a placebo diet based on the National Institute on Aging's recommendations for senior nutrition. This trial seeks to establish the feasibility of implementing a ketogenic, modified Atkins diet (MAD) to older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or early Alzheimer's disease (AD) living in the community. A secondary aim is to determine whether adherence to the MAD results in better cognitive test scores than adherence to a non-ketogenic control diet. A final aim is to determine the role of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype in participants' response to the MAD. Participants will be randomly assigned to a 12-week trial of either the MAD or a placebo diet based on the National Institute on Aging's recommendations for senior nutrition.

>>NCT01992380
This study will test if two 18F-AV-1451 PET scans up to 4 weeks apart in healthy volunteers, MCI and AD subjects provide the same results.

>>NCT01254448
This is a Phase 1 study to examine the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of TC-5619 in elderly subjects with and without Alzheimer's disease. Group 1 includes elderly subjects with Alzheimer's disease to receive TC-5619 or placebo for 28 days to evaluate safety and tolerability. Group 2 includes healthy elderly subjects in a dose escalation design to receive TC-5619 or placebo for 10 days to evaluate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics.

>>NCT01238991
The purpose of this long term extension study is to assess safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of ACC-001 with QS-21 adjuvant in Japanese subjects with mild to moderate AD who were randomized in the preceding P2 double blind studies.

>>NCT01137526
The purpose of this study is to test if the investigational medication, ABT-384, is a safe and effective treatment for adults with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study is to test if the investigational medication, ABT-384, is a safe and effective treatment for adults with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02860338
This retrospective study is a more extensive, confirmatory analysis of the cognitive and functional outcomes initially seen in 2 groups of MCI/dementia patients in Springfield, MA and compares specialized dementia care and a comprehensive treatment approach versus usual care delivered in a non-specialist setting.
 The first group of patients (n= 328) was seen by a dementia specialist, who utilized a standardized assessment and treatment protocol (CNS). This included comprehensive identification and treatment of hypoxia, sleep-disorders and other cognitively-impairing metabolic conditions as well as maximally- dosed FDA-approved medications for dementia, depression and PBA.
 The second group of patients (n= 280) was seen by non-dementia specialists in the community and received usual care which did not include comprehensive assessment or treatment of underlying metabolic derangements or maximal utilization of currently available medications.
 This study, evaluating date from a larger cohort (n>800) of specialist-treated cognitively-impaired patients, will further examine the hypothesis that a comprehensive dementia treatment protocol yields cognitive stabilization and/or improvement using already available dementia drugs when compared with usual community care. This retrospective study is a more extensive, confirmatory analysis of the cognitive and functional outcomes initially seen in 2 groups of MCI/dementia patients in Springfield, MA and compares specialized dementia care and a comprehensive treatment approach versus usual care delivered in a non-specialist setting.
 The first group of patients (n= 328) was seen by a dementia specialist, who utilized a standardized assessment and treatment protocol (CNS). This included comprehensive identification and treatment of hypoxia, sleep-disorders and other cognitively-impairing metabolic conditions as well as maximally- dosed FDA-approved medications for dementia, depression and PBA.
 The second group of patients (n= 280) was seen by non-dementia specialists in the community and received usual care which did not include comprehensive assessment or treatment of underlying metabolic derangements or maximal utilization of currently available medications.
 This study, evaluating date from a larger cohort (n>800) of specialist-treated cognitively-impaired patients, will further examine the hypothesis that a comprehensive dementia treatment protocol yields cognitive stabilization and/or improvement using already available dementia drugs when compared with usual community care.

>>NCT00870519
The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I MNI-168 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect -amyloid deposition in the brain of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) research participants and similarly aged and gender matched healthy subjects. The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I MNI-168 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect -amyloid deposition in the brain of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) research participants and similarly aged and gender matched healthy subjects.

>>NCT00607308
The purpose of this study is to examine the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and immunogenicity of a single dose of PF-04360365 in Japanese subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00684281
The aim of this project is to follow cohort of patients with aMCI in order to establish whether there are distinct subgroups in terms of evolution or aetiology, with distinct memory profiles and profiles of mesiotemporal atrophy and metabolic change The aim of this project is to follow cohort of patients with aMCI in order to establish whether there are distinct subgroups in terms of evolution or aetiology, with distinct memory profiles and profiles of mesiotemporal atrophy and metabolic change.

>>NCT00010803
This study will determine the effect of 240mg/day Ginkgo biloba in decreasing the incidence of dementia and specifically Alzheimer's disease (AD), slowing cognitive decline and functional disability, reducing incidence of cardiovascular disease and decreasing total mortality. This study will determine the effect of 240mg/day Ginkgo biloba in decreasing the incidence of dementia and specifically Alzheimer's disease (AD), slowing cognitive decline and functional disability, reducing incidence of cardiovascular disease and decreasing total mortality.

>>NCT00380276
Open-label treatment with MPC-7869 for participants in a previous randomized study.

>>NCT01702467
The current study will examine the safety, tolerability, plasma pharmacokinetics (PK) and plasma pharmacodynamics (PD) of single-doses of GSK2647544.The study will be conducted as a randomized, single-blind, placebo controlled, 4-way crossover single oral ascending dose design in 2 independent cohorts, eight healthy male subjects in each of the cohorts. Each potential subject will undergo Screening visit, Treatment Phase and Follow-up visit.

>>NCT00921297
Two very common aging-related diseases in older adults are Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cataracts. In elderly adults, these two diseases frequently occur in the same person. Although a cure for AD is currently unavailable, cataracts can be effectively treated with surgery in most people. The removal of cataracts has documented benefits for visual performance and for reducing accidents and falls. However, it has been the experience of the ophthalmologists and others in the field, that patients, caregivers and primary care doctors are reluctant to proceed with cataract surgery once an individual is given the diagnosis of AD. It is thought that cataract surgery will not improve the AD patient's quality of life, vision and cognition. The investigators have designed this study to determine whether or not this is true. Two very common aging-related diseases in older adults are Alzheimer's disease (AD) and cataracts. In elderly adults, these two diseases frequently occur in the same person. Although a cure for AD is currently unavailable, cataracts can be effectively treated with surgery in most people. The removal of cataracts has documented benefits for visual performance and for reducing accidents and falls. However, it has been the experience of the ophthalmologists and others in the field, that patients, caregivers and primary care doctors are reluctant to proceed with cataract surgery once an individual is given the diagnosis of AD. It is thought that cataract surgery will not improve the AD patient's quality of life, vision and cognition. The investigators have designed this study to determine whether or not this is true.

>>NCT00397891
Evaluate safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of single doses of the investigational AAB-001 Vaccine in Japanese patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01251718
To investigate the clinical safety and effectiveness of donepezil hydrochloride administration in patients with mild or moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02708485
The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of a 3-month walking program on brain energy metabolism in patient with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). Two groups of sedentary patients with mild AD are followed and compared over a 3-month period of time: Control (non-active) and walking (from 15 to 45 minutes of exercise on a treadmill, 3 times a week for 12 weeks) groups. All the participants are evaluated on their cognition, brain volumes (MRI) and brain fuel consumption (PET scan with 18-FDG and 11C-AcAc) at the beginning and at the end of the study.

>>NCT00448318
Dementing syndromes are, for the most part, incurable. People with dementia become highly dependent and frequently have to move from their homes into residential aged care facilities.
 Medications aimed at reducing the severity of a number of symptoms associated with the different types of dementia have had only modest success.
 Increasingly, people with dementia, their families and carers are turning to supplementary or alternative approaches to the management of their symptoms. There are many published reports describing the successful use of music therapy in reducing the severity of many symptoms of dementia. These include reports of improved memory, improved language skills, reduced anxiety and depression, reductions in agitation and disruptive behaviours and better social relationships with family, peers and carers. However, the quality of evidence they provide for the most part fails meet the standards of evidence required by health care providers. This clinical trial will examine the effects of a music therapy intervention.
 The study will recruit 180 patients in sub-acute hospital wards. Participants will be randomly placed in groups that receive either occupational therapy or music therapy. Before the therapy programs begin, we will use questionnaires to measure memory function, language ability, orientation and mood. We will also record brain activity from the surface of the scalp, blood pressure and pulse to examine physiological responses. The same measures will be repeated after the 3 weeks of therapy to determine whether there has been any improvement in the symptoms of the participants and whether the group that had music therapy showed greater improvement than the group that had occupational therapy. We will make a video recording during one therapy session to allow us to observe levels of engagement and to assess changes in facial expressions. This will provide information about the immediate effects of music on mood and social interaction. The information we collect about brain activity and blood pressure will help us to understand how music therapy might bring about changes in the symptoms of dementia. This understanding will be useful in developing better applications of music therapy. It will also add to our current knowledge about how the various diseases cause the problems they do.
 In summary, the primary aim of the project is to determine whether the reported effects of music therapy are supported by objective evidence. Dementing syndromes are, for the most part, incurable. People with dementia become highly dependent and frequently have to move from their homes into residential aged care facilities.
 Medications aimed at reducing the severity of a number of symptoms associated with the different types of dementia have had only modest success.
 Increasingly, people with dementia, their families and carers are turning to supplementary or alternative approaches to the management of their symptoms. There are many published reports describing the successful use of music therapy in reducing the severity of many symptoms of dementia. These include reports of improved memory, improved language skills, reduced anxiety and depression, reductions in agitation and disruptive behaviours and better social relationships with family, peers and carers. However, the quality of evidence they provide for the most part fails meet the standards of evidence required by health care providers. This clinical trial will examine the effects of a music therapy intervention.
 The study will recruit 180 patients in sub-acute hospital wards. Participants will be randomly placed in groups that receive either occupational therapy or music therapy. Before the therapy programs begin, we will use questionnaires to measure memory function, language ability, orientation and mood. We will also record brain activity from the surface of the scalp, blood pressure and pulse to examine physiological responses. The same measures will be repeated after the 3 weeks of therapy to determine whether there has been any improvement in the symptoms of the participants and whether the group that had music therapy showed greater improvement than the group that had occupational therapy. We will make a video recording during one therapy session to allow us to observe levels of engagement and to assess changes in facial expressions. This will provide information about the immediate effects of music on mood and social interaction. The information we collect about brain activity and blood pressure will help us to understand how music therapy might bring about changes in the symptoms of dementia. This understanding will be useful in developing better applications of music therapy. It will also add to our current knowledge about how the various diseases cause the problems they do.
 In summary, the primary aim of the project is to determine whether the reported effects of music therapy are supported by objective evidence.

>>NCT00423085
The purpose of this study was to investigate the 5cm^2 and 10cm^2 doses of rivastigmine transdermal patch in terms of efficacy and safety in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease (MMSE [Mini Mental State Examination] 10-20). A 52-week extension phase evaluated the safety and tolerability of long-term treatment by rivastigmine transdermal patch in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of this study was to investigate the 5cm^2 and 10cm^2 doses of rivastigmine transdermal patch in terms of efficacy and safety in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease (MMSE [Mini Mental State Examination] 10-20). A 52-week extension phase evaluated the safety and tolerability of long-term treatment by rivastigmine transdermal patch in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT00259454
This study tests the effectiveness of an in-home intervention to reduce upset and burden among family caregivers and decrease nursing home placement. The main hypothesis that will be tested is that compared to control group, subjects, experimental group participants will have enhanced well-being and fewer nursing home placements. This study tests the effectiveness of an in-home intervention to reduce upset and burden among family caregivers and decrease nursing home placement. The main hypothesis that will be tested is that compared to control group, subjects, experimental group participants will have enhanced well-being and fewer nursing home placements.

>>NCT00408525
The purpose of the study is to examine patterns of brain activity in people who are at risk for memory problems (e.g., Alzheimer's disease or dementia)before and after the medication donepezil. Although genetic testing will be done, the results will not be shared with study participants.
 Once the genetic testing is completed subjects may continue to the second phase of the study. During this time they will be asked to take the medication donepezil (which is approved by the FDA for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease).
 Donepezil is not FDA approved for healthy volunteers and is therefore considered investigational in this study. The purpose of the study is to examine patterns of brain activity in people who are at risk for memory problems (e.g., Alzheimer's disease or dementia)before and after the medication donepezil. Although genetic testing will be done, the results will not be shared with study participants.
 Once the genetic testing is completed subjects may continue to the second phase of the study. During this time they will be asked to take the medication donepezil (which is approved by the FDA for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease).
 Donepezil is not FDA approved for healthy volunteers and is therefore considered investigational in this study.

>>NCT00182897
The primary goal of the study is documentation of effectiveness of a home-based intervention to reduce caregiver burden related to dementia caregiving, improve caregiver health status and reduce caregiver and care recipient resource utilization. The primary goal of the study is documentation of effectiveness of a home-based intervention to reduce caregiver burden related to dementia caregiving, improve caregiver health status and reduce caregiver and care recipient resource utilization.

>>NCT02278354
Subjects enrolled in the Professional Fighters Brain Health Study (PFBHS) will receive 18F-AV-1451 to explore its use as a biomarker for brain injury related to repetitive head trauma and to examine the relationship between clinical presentation and tau deposition.

>>NCT01876823
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common dementing disorder of later life, is a major cause of disability and death in the elderly. Although a number of theoretical causes exist, the etiology of AD is still unknown. Consequently, the focus of treatments has been palliative, designed to ameliorate AD symptoms. Recent efforts, however, have revealed some surprising data suggesting that cholinesterase inhibitors (AchEIs), used over the last decade and recently released memantine (an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist), may confer protection to neurons. Thus, they may offer a slowing of cognitive decline and/or improvement in behavioral symptoms associated with memory impairment.
 Over the last decade, it has been well documented that mild cognitive impairment (MCI) increases the risk of conversion to AD and that coincident depression and MCI (Dep-MCI) further increases the risk 2 to 3 fold. The primary focus of this line of investigation is to treat the very high risk to dement patient population with Dep-MCI, before they develop AD, in the hopes of delaying AD onset.
 Memantine had not been studied in DEP-MCI patients. Since treatment of these patients with combined antidepressant and AChEIs has been associated with cognitive improvement in pilot studies, we explore whether treatment of DEP-MCI with memantine in addition to antidepressant treatment would benefit cognitive performance and lead to a low rate of conversion to dementia. We evaluate the cognitive and antidepressant benefit of combined open-label es-citalopram and memantine treatment over 48 weeks in a DEP-CI sample. Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common dementing disorder of later life, is a major cause of disability and death in the elderly. Although a number of theoretical causes exist, the etiology of AD is still unknown. Consequently, the focus of treatments has been palliative, designed to ameliorate AD symptoms. Recent efforts, however, have revealed some surprising data suggesting that cholinesterase inhibitors (AchEIs), used over the last decade and recently released memantine (an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist), may confer protection to neurons. Thus, they may offer a slowing of cognitive decline and/or improvement in behavioral symptoms associated with memory impairment.
 Over the last decade, it has been well documented that mild cognitive impairment (MCI) increases the risk of conversion to AD and that coincident depression and MCI (Dep-MCI) further increases the risk 2 to 3 fold. The primary focus of this line of investigation is to treat the very high risk to dement patient population with Dep-MCI, before they develop AD, in the hopes of delaying AD onset.
 Memantine had not been studied in DEP-MCI patients. Since treatment of these patients with combined antidepressant and AChEIs has been associated with cognitive improvement in pilot studies, we explore whether treatment of DEP-MCI with memantine in addition to antidepressant treatment would benefit cognitive performance and lead to a low rate of conversion to dementia. We evaluate the cognitive and antidepressant benefit of combined open-label es-citalopram and memantine treatment over 48 weeks in a DEP-CI sample.

>>NCT02770482
The combined measurement of Ab42 and tau protein (total and phosphorylated) in the spinal fluid has been shown to be promising in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and has justified its inclusion new diagnostic criteria. However, it can sometimes yield discordant results that are not discriminant (isolated variation in Ab42 or P-181 Tau). To answer this challenge, a new marker has been developed in recent years, namely amyloid beta-peptide 1-40 (A40). This marker reflects the patient's total amyloid deposits and is used to calculate the A42/A40 ratio. This ratio measures the relative variation of A42 as compared to the total amyloid burden. Literature data on this topic are sparse and to date, no report has been published evaluating the utility of this marker in the diagnostic strategy for AD.

>>NCT00624026
The study objective is to evaluate the effects of memantine treatment on communication abilities and other cognitive abilities in moderate to severe DAT patients.

>>NCT00093951
The purpose of this trial is to determine the effect of a new drug, SGS742, on memory and cognition in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this trial is to determine the effect of a new drug, SGS742, on memory and cognition in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00980785
Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-I) are a group of blood pressure-lowering medicines. Some studies suggest that ACE-I, such as ramipril, may help prevent Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of the research is to see how ramipril affects a substance in the body called beta-amyloid. Beta-amyloid is found in the brain and in the liquid around the brain and spinal cord. High amounts of beta-amyloid may be associated with a greater risk of getting Alzheimer's disease. This study will see if ramipril can lower the amount of beta-amyloid in the spinal fluid. This study will also see if ramipril affects blood vessel function and memory and thinking. The investigators hope that future studies will show whether ramipril might prevent memory loss and decrease the chance of developing Alzheimer's disease. Angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-I) are a group of blood pressure-lowering medicines. Some studies suggest that ACE-I, such as ramipril, may help prevent Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of the research is to see how ramipril affects a substance in the body called beta-amyloid. Beta-amyloid is found in the brain and in the liquid around the brain and spinal cord. High amounts of beta-amyloid may be associated with a greater risk of getting Alzheimer's disease. This study will see if ramipril can lower the amount of beta-amyloid in the spinal fluid. This study will also see if ramipril affects blood vessel function and memory and thinking. The investigators hope that future studies will show whether ramipril might prevent memory loss and decrease the chance of developing Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02167256
AZD0530 is an inhibitor of Src and Abl family kinases1. It has been developed as treatment for malignancies because these kinases play a role in tumor invasion and proliferation. However, the Src family kinases (SFKs) are highly expressed in brain and have major effects on synaptic plasticity2. Moreover, the investigators have recently shown that a specific SFK, namely Fyn, is aberrantly activated by specific conformations of the Amyloid Beta (A) peptide from Alzheimer's disease (AD). Genetic deletion of Fyn rescues AD deficits in preclinical models. This clinical trial will test the potential benefit of AZD0530 for Alzheimer's disease modification.

>>NCT02010476
Type 2 diabetes mellitus has been associated with an about 2-fold increase in risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients with AD have been reported to have reduced insulin sensitivity. It may be hypothesized that, compared to insulin sensitive subjects otherwise similar in general health and body habitus, insulin resistant subjects are more likely to have cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) indicators of incipient AD pathology, abnormalities in CSF peptides related to insulin signaling and glucose homeostasis and possibly other metabolites that are associated with a risk of AD. The objective of this study is to examine the relation of insulin resistance and the concentrations of CSF biomarkers. The results of this study may be useful in the detection of the subjects who are at risk for cognitive decline and AD. Type 2 diabetes mellitus has been associated with an about 2-fold increase in risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients with AD have been reported to have reduced insulin sensitivity. It may be hypothesized that, compared to insulin sensitive subjects otherwise similar in general health and body habitus, insulin resistant subjects are more likely to have cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) indicators of incipient AD pathology, abnormalities in CSF peptides related to insulin signaling and glucose homeostasis and possibly other metabolites that are associated with a risk of AD. The objective of this study is to examine the relation of insulin resistance and the concentrations of CSF biomarkers. The results of this study may be useful in the detection of the subjects who are at risk for cognitive decline and AD.

>>NCT00970333
Ultimately a marker of microglial activation could be used for large-scale quantitative brain imaging trials in Alzheimer Disease (AD), Parkinson Disease (PD) or Multiple Sclerosis (MS), specifically to investigate the agent as an objective biomarker in treatments aimed at reducing inflammatory changes in these conditions. The significance of this work lies in applying state-of-art quantitative neuroimaging tools to develop a relevant biomarker in individuals with neurodegenerative diseases with the intention of using this efficiently in large clinical imaging trials. Ultimately a marker of microglial activation could be used for large-scale quantitative brain imaging trials in Alzheimer Disease (AD), Parkinson Disease (PD) or Multiple Sclerosis (MS), specifically to investigate the agent as an objective biomarker in treatments aimed at reducing inflammatory changes in these conditions. The significance of this work lies in applying state-of-art quantitative neuroimaging tools to develop a relevant biomarker in individuals with neurodegenerative diseases with the intention of using this efficiently in large clinical imaging trials.

>>NCT00719394
This is a first-in-human study of GSI-136, a gamma-secretase inhibitor being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer disease. This study will take place in Japan only and will provide an initial assessment of the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of GSI-136 after administration of ascending single oral doses to healthy Japanese male subjects and healthy Japanese elderly male subjects.

>>NCT01688128
The purpose of this study is to examine the efficacy of the Ubiquitous Spaced Retrieval-based Memory Advancement and Rehabilitation Training (U-SMART) in the elderly individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) by an open-label, controlled, crossover Trial. The purpose of this study is to examine the efficacy of the Ubiquitous Spaced Retrieval-based Memory Advancement and Rehabilitation Training (U-SMART) in the elderly individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) by an open-label, controlled, crossover Trial.

>>NCT01900665
To test the idea that solanezumab will slow the cognitive decline of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) as compared with placebo in participants with mild AD.

>>NCT01133405
This is a Phase 1 study in healthy subjects to evaluate the safety and tolerability of LY2886721 single doses, how the body handles the drug and the drug's effect on the body. This is a Phase 1 study in healthy subjects to evaluate the safety and tolerability of LY2886721 single doses, how the body handles the drug and the drug's effect on the body.

>>NCT01741194
This study will evaluate the effects of daily dosing of AC-1204 on cognition, activities of daily living, resource utilization, quality of life, pharmacokinetic measures and safety among participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01273272
The purpose of this study is to determine whether a comprehensive cognitive-behavioral therapy-based, multi-component treatment programme is effective in the treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms of patients with mild Alzheimer's dementia. The purpose of this study is to determine whether a comprehensive cognitive-behavioral therapy-based, multi-component treatment programme is effective in the treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms of patients with mild Alzheimer's dementia.

>>NCT01690117
The purpose of the present study is to adapt, to implement and to evaluate an support program for family caregivers of patients suffering from Alzheimers`Disease (AD). The intervention was comprehensive developed and successful evaluated in the USA and is called Resources to Enhance AlzheimersCaregiver Health -second step (REACH II). To test the effectiveness of this German adaptation of REACH II the present implementation study is designed as randomized and controlled trial. Primary outcome is reducing family caregiver burden. The purpose of the present study is to adapt, to implement and to evaluate an support program for family caregivers of patients suffering from Alzheimers`Disease (AD). The intervention was comprehensive developed and successful evaluated in the USA and is called Resources to Enhance AlzheimersCaregiver Health -second step (REACH II). To test the effectiveness of this German adaptation of REACH II the present implementation study is designed as randomized and controlled trial. Primary outcome is reducing family caregiver burden.

>>NCT01354691
For many, Alzheimer's disease is the number one medical issue facing our aging society. It is a late onset neurodegenerative disease, frequently under diagnosed, that impairs memory and cognitive performance. There are no known treatments that can either prevent or reverse its progression. Consequently, there still remains a need to evaluate treatments which can better stabilize the symptoms of this disease. These symptoms frequently include decreased functional capacity and negative psychological attributes (e,g, depression, anxiety) in association with the memory and cognition deficits. This current study is being done to assess an investigational compound that has been designed to not only improved the cognitive status of affected patients but to also better manage all symptoms. Hence, the ultimate goal is to provide patients with an improved quality of life by slowing the progression of this neurodegenerative disease For many, Alzheimer's disease is the number one medical issue facing our aging society. It is a late onset neurodegenerative disease, frequently under diagnosed, that impairs memory and cognitive performance. There are no known treatments that can either prevent or reverse its progression. Consequently, there still remains a need to evaluate treatments which can better stabilize the symptoms of this disease. These symptoms frequently include decreased functional capacity and negative psychological attributes (e,g, depression, anxiety) in association with the memory and cognition deficits. This current study is being done to assess an investigational compound that has been designed to not only improved the cognitive status of affected patients but to also better manage all symptoms. Hence, the ultimate goal is to provide patients with an improved quality of life by slowing the progression of this neurodegenerative disease.

>>NCT00297414
The purpose of the study is to collect data of patients who were randomized (assignment of study medication by chance) and treated in 3 previous studies of galantamine (CR003145, CR002014 and CR005947) for the treatment of mild cognitive impairment (isolated memory impairment). This data were not recorded during the course of these 3 previous studies. The purpose of the study is to collect data of patients who were randomized (assignment of study medication by chance) and treated in 3 previous studies of galantamine (CR003145, CR002014 and CR005947) for the treatment of mild cognitive impairment (isolated memory impairment). This data were not recorded during the course of these 3 previous studies.

>>NCT01224106
This multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel-group study will evaluate the effect of gantenerumab (RO4909832) on cognition and functioning and the safety and pharmacokinetics in participants with prodromal Alzheimer's Disease. Participants will be randomized to receive subcutaneous (SC) injections of either gantenerumab or placebo. Participants who consent to be part of the sub study will undergo positron emission tomography (PET) scanning to assess brain amyloid. The anticipated time on study treatment is 104 weeks, with an option for an additional 2 years of treatment.

>>NCT02685969
Study to understand factors related with the preclinical stages of Alzheimer's Disease and investigate markers that predict its progression.
 Cross-sectional and single arm study performed on a subgroup of individuals recruited in the ALFA project.
 Study without therapeutic interest for the research participants (440 participants of the ALFA project who have been selected for being cognitively healthy and in their vast majority are direct descendants of patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease).
 Each study candidate will be selected from the ALFA project (STUDY 45-65 FPM/2012) according to their clinical characteristics, their compliance to selection criteria and their desire to participate in this study.
 After signing this study's specific informed consent form, the neuropsychological screening and the brain MRI acquisition will be performed. Once all inclusion criteria are checked, the PET scans with 18F-Flutemetamol and 18F-FDG will be performed Study to understand factors related with the preclinical stages of Alzheimer's Disease and investigate markers that predict its progression.
 Cross-sectional and single arm study performed on a subgroup of individuals recruited in the ALFA project.
 Study without therapeutic interest for the research participants (440 participants of the ALFA project who have been selected for being cognitively healthy and in their vast majority are direct descendants of patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's Disease).
 Each study candidate will be selected from the ALFA project (STUDY 45-65 FPM/2012) according to their clinical characteristics, their compliance to selection criteria and their desire to participate in this study.
 After signing this study's specific informed consent form, the neuropsychological screening and the brain MRI acquisition will be performed. Once all inclusion criteria are checked, the PET scans with 18F-Flutemetamol and 18F-FDG will be performed.

>>NCT00287742
The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness and safety of risperidone (an antipsychotic medication) versus placebo for the treatment of patients with hallucinations and delusions associated with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness and safety of risperidone (an antipsychotic medication) versus placebo for the treatment of patients with hallucinations and delusions associated with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01339130
Empathy, defined as the ability to understand others emotions, is a fundamental concept in social interactions. It is a psychological phenomenon involving various separable components : (i) the ability to feel and imagine the emotions, (ii) the ability to adopt the perspective of other people. Several neurological diseases with behavioral disorders may lead to impaired processing of social and/or emotional informations. These pathologies are likely to induce a lack of empathy that may result from impairments at different levels.
 The objective is simply to study how others' emotions are understood and how this allows for regulation of personal behavior. This study is being carried out among patients seen for various health problems and who can make behavior changes. This study could help to understand some neurological diseases and thereby to identify them earlier and/or to better differentiate them. Empathy, defined as the ability to understand others emotions, is a fundamental concept in social interactions. It is a psychological phenomenon involving various separable components : (i) the ability to feel and imagine the emotions, (ii) the ability to adopt the perspective of other people. Several neurological diseases with behavioral disorders may lead to impaired processing of social and/or emotional informations. These pathologies are likely to induce a lack of empathy that may result from impairments at different levels.
 The objective is simply to study how others' emotions are understood and how this allows for regulation of personal behavior. This study is being carried out among patients seen for various health problems and who can make behavior changes. This study could help to understand some neurological diseases and thereby to identify them earlier and/or to better differentiate them.

>>NCT01867372
Background:.
 - Participants in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging are being studied to examine changes in brain structure and function over time and to determine if these changes can predict the likelihood that an individual will develop thinking and memory impairments such as Alzheimer s disease later in life. Imaging studies and neuropsychological testing have been conducted on current participants and new participants are being recruited to the study. To develop better treatments and therapies for aging-related memory loss and other disorders, researchers are interested in determining whether early prediction of thinking and memory impairments are accurate and in evaluating factors that affect these predictions.
 Objectives:.
 - To use imaging studies and tests of thinking and memory to determine early markers of Alzheimer s disease and other cognitive impairments.
 Eligibility:.
 - Current participants and new recruits to the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be screened with a full medical history and physical examination, as well as blood and urine tests.
 - Participants will have testing visits as directed by the study researchers. All participants will have tests as part of their an initial enrollment in the study and may be asked to return yearly, 2 years later or 4 years later for repeated tests.
 - At each visit, participants will have brain imaging scans (including magnetic resonance imaging and/or magnetic resonance spectroscopy to measure brain structure and function and positron emission tomography to study blood flow in the brain) to evaluate brain structure and function. Participants will also take tests of memory and problem-solving skills.
 - Treatment will not be provided as part of this protocol. Background:.
 - Participants in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging are being studied to examine changes in brain structure and function over time and to determine if these changes can predict the likelihood that an individual will develop thinking and memory impairments such as Alzheimer s disease later in life. Imaging studies and neuropsychological testing have been conducted on current participants and new participants are being recruited to the study. To develop better treatments and therapies for aging-related memory loss and other disorders, researchers are interested in determining whether early prediction of thinking and memory impairments are accurate and in evaluating factors that affect these predictions.
 Objectives:.
 - To use imaging studies and tests of thinking and memory to determine early markers of Alzheimer s disease and other cognitive impairments.
 Eligibility:.
 - Current participants and new recruits to the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be screened with a full medical history and physical examination, as well as blood and urine tests.
 - Participants will have testing visits as directed by the study researchers. All participants will have tests as part of their an initial enrollment in the study and may be asked to return yearly, 2 years later or 4 years later for repeated tests.
 - At each visit, participants will have brain imaging scans (including magnetic resonance imaging and/or magnetic resonance spectroscopy to measure brain structure and function and positron emission tomography to study blood flow in the brain) to evaluate brain structure and function. Participants will also take tests of memory and problem-solving skills.
 - Treatment will not be provided as part of this protocol.

>>NCT02008513
This is a follow-up study to assess safety and clinical activity of continued AFFITOPE AD02 vaccinations in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Patients, who have already participated in AFF006 will be involved in 27 study sites in Europe. Duration of patient's participation in the clinical trial is 19 months.

>>NCT00088673
The purpose of this Phase III study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 3APS compared to placebo (inactive substance pill) in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimers disease.

>>NCT01217541
Dementia is a serious health problem showing an increasing prevalence rate with increasing age. In Norway, about 80% of nursing home patients have dementia. The mean age of nursing home residents in Norway is around 84 years. Disruptive and agitated behaviour affect 30-50% of all individuals with dementia at some point in the course of the illness. In addition, they have a combination of physical and psychological diseases which necessitates a close collaboration between different specialities in medicine and Old Age psychiatry. In collaboration with the communalities, our Old Age psychiatry services want to provide a new approach to this challenge and validate it on patient and personnel level.

>>NCT00393627
Sleep disturbances are widespread among demented residents of board and care homes and are a leading cause for transfer into nursing homes. This study is a randomized controlled clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of a 4-week Sleep Education Program (SEP) for demented residents of board and care homes who are experiencing sleep disturbances. Residents of adult family homes (board and care homes with 2-6 residents) will be randomized into SEP or usual care control. Analysis of outcomes will determine whether the SEP is feasible and effective in adult family home settings and whether the SEP delays transition into higher levels of institutional care. Sleep disturbances are widespread among demented residents of board and care homes and are a leading cause for transfer into nursing homes. This study is a randomized controlled clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of a 4-week Sleep Education Program (SEP) for demented residents of board and care homes who are experiencing sleep disturbances. Residents of adult family homes (board and care homes with 2-6 residents) will be randomized into SEP or usual care control. Analysis of outcomes will determine whether the SEP is feasible and effective in adult family home settings and whether the SEP delays transition into higher levels of institutional care.

>>NCT02719327
The number of Americans diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is expected to triple by 2050. Compared to the general population, Veterans have a greater risk of AD, likely in part due to their increased incidence of traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and other vascular-related health issues. Based on available data, 423000 new cases of AD are anticipated in Veterans by 2020. Thus, the discovery of effective therapies to prevent or delay the onset of AD in Veterans is critical. The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a purified form of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) called icosapent ethyl (IPE), on improving brain blood flow, spinal fluid markers of AD pathology and cognitive performance in middle-aged, cognitively-healthy Veterans with increased risk of AD. If IPE delays the onset of AD by even 5 years, the incidence of AD would be reduced by 50% in this population and could have a profound effect on Veteran quality of life and healthcare costs. The number of Americans diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is expected to triple by 2050. Compared to the general population, Veterans have a greater risk of AD, likely in part due to their increased incidence of traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and other vascular-related health issues. Based on available data, 423000 new cases of AD are anticipated in Veterans by 2020. Thus, the discovery of effective therapies to prevent or delay the onset of AD in Veterans is critical. The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a purified form of the omega-3 fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) called icosapent ethyl (IPE), on improving brain blood flow, spinal fluid markers of AD pathology and cognitive performance in middle-aged, cognitively-healthy Veterans with increased risk of AD. If IPE delays the onset of AD by even 5 years, the incidence of AD would be reduced by 50% in this population and could have a profound effect on Veteran quality of life and healthcare costs.

>>NCT00948766
The core study assessed the efficacy of a higher dose of rivastigmine 13.3 mg/24 h transdermally (15 cm^2 patch) compared to a lower dose of the rivastigmine 4.6 mg/24 h transdermally (5 cm^2 patch) in patients with Severe Dementia of the Alzheimer's Type in a 24-week study. The extension study obtained additional safety and efficacy data, as well as provided the higher dose rivastigmine patch to all patients who completed the core study for an additional 24 weeks.

>>NCT00689559
The purpose of the study is to evaluate if AZD3480 and warfarin interact with each other or not, i.e. show the same or altered plasma concentration profiles when co-administered compared to administered alone.

>>NCT01498263
Approximately 66 million informal caregivers care for someone who is ill, disabled or aged. These caregivers experience significant distress associated with caregiving, which may be particularly salient in the context of inherited conditions. Previous studies have not examined caregiving from a network perspective, nor have they considered how cognitive and emotional responses, such as caregivers worry for themselves and relatives acquiring the disease or guilt related to the genetic etiology of their child s illness, as possible stressors; the current project fills this literature gap.
 Caregiving processes may vary across type of illness and the life course. In illnesses that impact children, parents and grandparents may take on caregiving roles whereas in conditions that impact adults, spouses and adult children may provide care. Caregivers must adapt to the strain of caring for their affected relatives and this adaptation may differ depending on caregiver roles. The caregiver s support network may influence adaptation, impacting the health and well-being of patients, their caregivers and other relatives.
 This project, comprised of 4 substudies, will examine social contexts surrounding families involved in caring for individuals with chronic inherited conditions from a relational perspective. Surveys and interviews will assess participants cognitions and emotions about the disease, caregiving burden and caregiving/support network systems. In addition, biomarkers will be considered in 2 substudies to examine how caregiving roles and expectations impact health among caregivers.
 We aim to recruit at least 2575 participants through residential/daycare centers, advocacy groups and the NIH Clinical Center. We will recruit formal caregivers, multiple biological and non-biological adult relatives of patients and normally developing controls to construct and evaluate caregiving/support network systems. This project will use a social network framework to develop and adapt common measures of caregiving roles to evaluate burden, perceptual bias and unmet expectations in caregiving. The psychometric properties of these new measures, characteristics of family caregiving and support networks and how these network characteristics are associated with caregiving strain and well-being, including biomarkers of physical health, will be investigated. The moderating role of family members cognitions and emotions and disease context will be considered. Findings will guide future research to develop network-based interventions promoting positive adaptation to the presence of inherited conditions in families through improved social environments and coping skills. Approximately 66 million informal caregivers care for someone who is ill, disabled or aged. These caregivers experience significant distress associated with caregiving, which may be particularly salient in the context of inherited conditions. Previous studies have not examined caregiving from a network perspective, nor have they considered how cognitive and emotional responses, such as caregivers worry for themselves and relatives acquiring the disease or guilt related to the genetic etiology of their child s illness, as possible stressors; the current project fills this literature gap.
 Caregiving processes may vary across type of illness and the life course. In illnesses that impact children, parents and grandparents may take on caregiving roles whereas in conditions that impact adults, spouses and adult children may provide care. Caregivers must adapt to the strain of caring for their affected relatives and this adaptation may differ depending on caregiver roles. The caregiver s support network may influence adaptation, impacting the health and well-being of patients, their caregivers and other relatives.
 This project, comprised of 4 substudies, will examine social contexts surrounding families involved in caring for individuals with chronic inherited conditions from a relational perspective. Surveys and interviews will assess participants cognitions and emotions about the disease, caregiving burden and caregiving/support network systems. In addition, biomarkers will be considered in 2 substudies to examine how caregiving roles and expectations impact health among caregivers.
 We aim to recruit at least 2575 participants through residential/daycare centers, advocacy groups and the NIH Clinical Center. We will recruit formal caregivers, multiple biological and non-biological adult relatives of patients and normally developing controls to construct and evaluate caregiving/support network systems. This project will use a social network framework to develop and adapt common measures of caregiving roles to evaluate burden, perceptual bias and unmet expectations in caregiving. The psychometric properties of these new measures, characteristics of family caregiving and support networks and how these network characteristics are associated with caregiving strain and well-being, including biomarkers of physical health, will be investigated. The moderating role of family members cognitions and emotions and disease context will be considered. Findings will guide future research to develop network-based interventions promoting positive adaptation to the presence of inherited conditions in families through improved social environments and coping skills.

>>NCT02087618
This is a pilot study to examine the feasibility of a formal 30-minute daily program on a tablet computer (simply a "tablet") in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The purpose of the program, known as Kodro Solution, is to increase physical activity, maintain social interaction, improve nutrition and exercise cognitive skills using a tablet. In addition to feasibility, outcome measures will include: (a) health-related quality of life, (b) self-esteem, (c) activities of daily living, (d) socialization, (e) mood and (f) cognition. Study participants must have a study partner who can assist them with training on use of the tablet and the Kodro Solution program.
 Fifty (50) study subjects and their study partners will be recruited at the Wien Center. A delayed start design will be utilized. Study subjects will be randomly assigned to either active treatment (Kodro+) or delayed treatment (Kodro+D). Active treatment with Kodro Solution will be initiated at the baseline visit for Kodro+ subjects and 12 weeks after baseline for Kodro+D subjects. The 12-week period without tablets will serve as a control. Active treatment with Kodro Solution will continue for 36 weeks for the Kodro+ subjects and 24 weeks for the Kodro+D subjects. For both groups, the outcome measures will be assessed at baseline, week 12 and week 36. The lagged design will facilitate enrollment and enable the assessment of a dose effect. This is a pilot study to examine the feasibility of a formal 30-minute daily program on a tablet computer (simply a "tablet") in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The purpose of the program, known as Kodro Solution, is to increase physical activity, maintain social interaction, improve nutrition and exercise cognitive skills using a tablet. In addition to feasibility, outcome measures will include: (a) health-related quality of life, (b) self-esteem, (c) activities of daily living, (d) socialization, (e) mood and (f) cognition. Study participants must have a study partner who can assist them with training on use of the tablet and the Kodro Solution program.
 Fifty (50) study subjects and their study partners will be recruited at the Wien Center. A delayed start design will be utilized. Study subjects will be randomly assigned to either active treatment (Kodro+) or delayed treatment (Kodro+D). Active treatment with Kodro Solution will be initiated at the baseline visit for Kodro+ subjects and 12 weeks after baseline for Kodro+D subjects. The 12-week period without tablets will serve as a control. Active treatment with Kodro Solution will continue for 36 weeks for the Kodro+ subjects and 24 weeks for the Kodro+D subjects. For both groups, the outcome measures will be assessed at baseline, week 12 and week 36. The lagged design will facilitate enrollment and enable the assessment of a dose effect.

>>NCT00968097
The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I MNI-340, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged Alzheimer's (AD) subjects and healthy controls.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I MNI-340 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I MNI-340 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I MNI-340, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged Alzheimer's (AD) subjects and healthy controls.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I MNI-340 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I MNI-340 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.

>>NCT02553928
Evaluation of the safety and tolerability of a 20 mg once daily dose of memantine compared with 10 mg given twice daily in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type and MMSE range 5-18.

>>NCT01297036
To compare the relative bioavailability and pharmacokinetic characteristics of a newly developed donepezil formulation with a conventional formulation in healthy subjects with a single dose, randomized, open-label, 2-sequence -2period crossover study. To compare the relative bioavailability and pharmacokinetic characteristics of a newly developed donepezil formulation with a conventional formulation in healthy subjects with a single dose, randomized, open-label, 2-sequence -2period crossover study.

>>NCT02608021
This protocol describes a study to validate Neurotrack's visual paired comparison task, aimed at early detection and monitoring of memory impairment. The investigators will determine whether the novel task developed by Neurotrack is associated with markers of brain pathology associated with very early Alzheimer's disease. The elderly subjects studied will be cognitively normal (CN) or have amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). For the current study, the primary brain pathology parameters will be derived from MRI scans. Data from this study will be correlated with data from a parallel study designed to validate a larger group of new cognitive tasks by correlating test performance with a broader array of biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease. This protocol describes a study to validate Neurotrack's visual paired comparison task, aimed at early detection and monitoring of memory impairment. The investigators will determine whether the novel task developed by Neurotrack is associated with markers of brain pathology associated with very early Alzheimer's disease. The elderly subjects studied will be cognitively normal (CN) or have amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). For the current study, the primary brain pathology parameters will be derived from MRI scans. Data from this study will be correlated with data from a parallel study designed to validate a larger group of new cognitive tasks by correlating test performance with a broader array of biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01148498
The purpose of this trial is to compare the average change in the amount of amyloid beta species in blood after an infusion of solanezumab.

>>NCT00838110
This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled safety study conducted in 2 study cohorts. In Cohort 1, subjects with Alzheimer's disease (n=250) will receive Dimebon 20 mg or placebo TID for 26 weeks. In Cohort 2 AD subjects (n=500) will be treated with Dimebon 20 mg or placebo TID for 12 weeks After completion of the randomized portion of the study, subjects in both Cohorts will have the opportunity to enroll in a Dimebon open label extension study.

>>NCT00334906
The purpose of this study is to characterize the progression of disease using volumetric MRI techniques and cognitive outcome measures in patients with moderate dementia of the Alzheimer's type treated with open-label memantine.

>>NCT01582919
It is now acknowledged that Alzheimer's disease is characterized by a long period of pathophysiological change. Developing new strategies to achieve diagnoses as early as possible has become a major goal for therapies aimed at slowing the progression of this disease. While diagnoses currently rely principally on clinical neuropsychology, the typical diagnostic criteria of NINCDS-ADRDA are inapplicable in the early stage of the disease. The goal of our project is to identify very early imaging markers for Alzheimer's disease among patients with no report of cognitive difficulties. In order to achieve this goal, we propose a longitudinal study in an elderly population cohort. It is now acknowledged that Alzheimer's disease is characterized by a long period of pathophysiological change. Developing new strategies to achieve diagnoses as early as possible has become a major goal for therapies aimed at slowing the progression of this disease. While diagnoses currently rely principally on clinical neuropsychology, the typical diagnostic criteria of NINCDS-ADRDA are inapplicable in the early stage of the disease. The goal of our project is to identify very early imaging markers for Alzheimer's disease among patients with no report of cognitive difficulties. In order to achieve this goal, we propose a longitudinal study in an elderly population cohort.

>>NCT01696123
Current therapeutic approaches for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer disease (AD) offer limited and often transient symptomatic benefits to patients but do not mitigate the insidious loss of neuronal cells. In this trial the investigators will evaluate Efficacy and Tolerability of MLC601 as a neuroprotective in Patients with Mild to Moderate Alzheimer Disease who Were Unable to Tolerate or Failed to Benefit from Treatment with Rivastigmine. Current therapeutic approaches for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer disease (AD) offer limited and often transient symptomatic benefits to patients but do not mitigate the insidious loss of neuronal cells. In this trial the investigators will evaluate Efficacy and Tolerability of MLC601 as a neuroprotective in Patients with Mild to Moderate Alzheimer Disease who Were Unable to Tolerate or Failed to Benefit from Treatment with Rivastigmine.

>>NCT01735630
The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether ELND005 is effective in treating symptoms of agitation and aggression in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02474251
The 'Amyloid Cascade Hypothesis' posits that the accumulation of a peptide, amyloid beta (A), in the brain is the initiating event in Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, the mechanisms involved are not well understood. Recent studies support the hypothesis that A dynamics in the brain are influenced by the sleep-wake cycle, with increases in the production of soluble A during wakefulness and decreases during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and more specifically on NREM stage 3 (also called slow wave sleep [SWS]). These changes produce a consistent diurnal pattern in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that has been documented in murine models and in humans. By better understanding this sleep-wake relationship the investigators hope to identify how sleep disorders accelerate the progression of AD in the elderly (which has been demonstrated by multiple epidemiological studies) and, in turn, identify novel therapeutic targets for AD prevention.
 The purpose of this study is to elucidate how soluble amyloid beta (A) levels in the brain are influenced by the sleep-wake cycle in humans and to test the directionality of this relationship through sleep disruption experiments. The investigators will test two models. The first model will test how, prior to amyloid deposition, brain soluble A levels may be relatively increased in the elderly by two mechanisms: a) loss of total sleep time and SWS that occur with normal aging; and b) sleep disturbances such as Sleep Disordered Breathing (SDB) or insomnia that are common in late life (Aim 1). The second model will test how stage-specific sleep disruption may lead to increased CSF A42 levels (Aim 2). A group of adults with diagnosed severe SDB and good continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) compliance will be used to test this model sleep deprivation experiments using therapeutic CPAP vs. sham CPAP.
 This project will be the first to explore the protective effect of SWS on A42 dynamics in a group of cognitively normal elderly subjects as well as the effect of acute sleep disruption by CPAP withdrawal on CSF A42 levels in a well characterized clinical sample of severe obstructive SDB patients on treatment with CPAP. The results from this study will improve our understanding of the nature of the A diurnal pattern and the brain consequences of full night sleep disruptions as well as sleep disruptions during specific stages of sleep. The 'Amyloid Cascade Hypothesis' posits that the accumulation of a peptide, amyloid beta (A), in the brain is the initiating event in Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, the mechanisms involved are not well understood. Recent studies support the hypothesis that A dynamics in the brain are influenced by the sleep-wake cycle, with increases in the production of soluble A during wakefulness and decreases during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and more specifically on NREM stage 3 (also called slow wave sleep [SWS]). These changes produce a consistent diurnal pattern in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that has been documented in murine models and in humans. By better understanding this sleep-wake relationship the investigators hope to identify how sleep disorders accelerate the progression of AD in the elderly (which has been demonstrated by multiple epidemiological studies) and, in turn, identify novel therapeutic targets for AD prevention.
 The purpose of this study is to elucidate how soluble amyloid beta (A) levels in the brain are influenced by the sleep-wake cycle in humans and to test the directionality of this relationship through sleep disruption experiments. The investigators will test two models. The first model will test how, prior to amyloid deposition, brain soluble A levels may be relatively increased in the elderly by two mechanisms: a) loss of total sleep time and SWS that occur with normal aging; and b) sleep disturbances such as Sleep Disordered Breathing (SDB) or insomnia that are common in late life (Aim 1). The second model will test how stage-specific sleep disruption may lead to increased CSF A42 levels (Aim 2). A group of adults with diagnosed severe SDB and good continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) compliance will be used to test this model sleep deprivation experiments using therapeutic CPAP vs. sham CPAP.
 This project will be the first to explore the protective effect of SWS on A42 dynamics in a group of cognitively normal elderly subjects as well as the effect of acute sleep disruption by CPAP withdrawal on CSF A42 levels in a well characterized clinical sample of severe obstructive SDB patients on treatment with CPAP. The results from this study will improve our understanding of the nature of the A diurnal pattern and the brain consequences of full night sleep disruptions as well as sleep disruptions during specific stages of sleep.

>>NCT02460783
Background:.
 - Insulin removes sugar from the blood to use for energy. Insulin resistance means that cells may not respond to insulin normally. It can lead to serious diseases. Researchers want to see how diet affects insulin resistance, weight and brain chemicals related to Alzheimer s disease.
 Objectives:.
 - To compare two forms of diet and their effects on insulin resistance and the brain.
 Eligibility:.
 - Women ages 55 70 with insulin resistance.
 Design:.
 - This study requires 6 clinic visits over 9 12 weeks. Participants must fast before visits.
 - Visit 1, screening:.
 - Medical history, physical exam and blood and urine tests.
 - Participants will get a wrist device to wear for 4 days.
 - Visit 2:.
 - Weight and waist measurement.
 - Blood drawn.
 - Questionnaires and thinking tests.
 - Lumbar puncture. Skin will be numbed and a needle inserted between bones in the back will remove <TAB>fluid.
 - Participants will drink a nutrition shake. Blood will be taken 12 times over 4 <TAB>hours through a thin tube in <TAB>the arm.
 - Brain MRI. Participants will lie on a table that slides in and out of a cylinder in a strong magnetic field. <TAB>They will have a coil on their head and may do tasks.
 - Participants will get advice about healthy eating and be randomly put in one of 2 groups. One group will get <TAB>nutrition shakes to drink.
 - Visits 3 5:.
 - Weight and waist measurements, vital signs, blood draw and questionnaires.
 - Between visits, participants will get a call or email to check how they are doing.
 - Visit 6: Repeat of visit 1.
 - Participants will wear the wrist device for 4 more days, have a follow-up contact, then the study is finished. Background:.
 - Insulin removes sugar from the blood to use for energy. Insulin resistance means that cells may not respond to insulin normally. It can lead to serious diseases. Researchers want to see how diet affects insulin resistance, weight and brain chemicals related to Alzheimer s disease.
 Objectives:.
 - To compare two forms of diet and their effects on insulin resistance and the brain.
 Eligibility:.
 - Women ages 55 70 with insulin resistance.
 Design:.
 - This study requires 6 clinic visits over 9 12 weeks. Participants must fast before visits.
 - Visit 1, screening:.
 - Medical history, physical exam and blood and urine tests.
 - Participants will get a wrist device to wear for 4 days.
 - Visit 2:.
 - Weight and waist measurement.
 - Blood drawn.
 - Questionnaires and thinking tests.
 - Lumbar puncture. Skin will be numbed and a needle inserted between bones in the back will remove <TAB>fluid.
 - Participants will drink a nutrition shake. Blood will be taken 12 times over 4 <TAB>hours through a thin tube in <TAB>the arm.
 - Brain MRI. Participants will lie on a table that slides in and out of a cylinder in a strong magnetic field. <TAB>They will have a coil on their head and may do tasks.
 - Participants will get advice about healthy eating and be randomly put in one of 2 groups. One group will get <TAB>nutrition shakes to drink.
 - Visits 3 5:.
 - Weight and waist measurements, vital signs, blood draw and questionnaires.
 - Between visits, participants will get a call or email to check how they are doing.
 - Visit 6: Repeat of visit 1.
 - Participants will wear the wrist device for 4 more days, have a follow-up contact, then the study is finished.

>>NCT01454453
Drugs such as amisulpride, known as antipsychotic drugs, are used to treat troublesome and distressing symptoms in older people. Although these drugs can be beneficial, they are associated with side effects, particularly in patients with dementia and schizophrenia- like illness. There is an urgent clinical need to understand why this is the case, to guide treatment strategies.
 This study aims to utilise brain imaging techniques that measure the action of antipsychotic drugs in the brain to explore the causes of this susceptibility in older people with dementia and schizophrenia-like illness and translate these findings into direct patient benefit.
 The aim of the study is to investigate and compare the relationship between the action of amisulpride at brain sites and clinical response (symptom reduction and side effect profile) during the first 10 weeks of amisulpride treatment in two patient groups - Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia-like illness. Imaging data will be combined with data on drug dosage, levels of drug in the bloodstream and clinical response (symptom reduction and motor side effects) during dose titration.
 Non-linear mixed effect modelling will be used to establish the minimum clinically effective dose of amisulpride, optimum dose range and impact of variability and covariates on exposure-response relationships in the 2 patient groups.
 This information will be used make predictions about amisulpride prescribing of other antipsychotic drugs to the two patient groups.

>>NCT01192529
The most common symptoms associated to senile dementia disease are confusion about schedules, hyperactivity... In this sense, these patients have frequently poor nutrition, resulting in malnutrition problems or malnutrition high risk. The most common symptoms associated to senile dementia disease are confusion about schedules, hyperactivity... In this sense, these patients have frequently poor nutrition, resulting in malnutrition problems or malnutrition high risk.

>>NCT01867775
The purpose of this study is to determine whether mirtazapine is effective in the treatment of sleep disorders in Alzheimers disease. The purpose of this study is to determine whether mirtazapine is effective in the treatment of sleep disorders in Alzheimers disease.

>>NCT02534480
NGP 555 is a small molecule preventative therapy aimed at reducing Alzheimer's disease amyloid buildup by targeting Abeta 42 production. NGP 555 is a small molecule preventative therapy aimed at reducing Alzheimer's disease amyloid buildup by targeting Abeta 42 production.

>>NCT02861846
Beyond 60 years, the prevalence of epilepsy is estimated at approximately 1% and increases with age. In these patients, the etiology of epilepsy is unknown in 25% of cases, even up to 55% after 65 years. Although new-onset epilepsy in the elderly is associated with a vascular disease in 50% of cases, the hypothesis of an ongoing neurodegenerative process, including an Alzheimer's disease (AD), is also common. However, investigators do not have any marker that might help to identify the patients who develop epilepsy after 60 years and who might be, despite a normal cognitive functioning, already engaged in the pathophysiological process of AD.
 A number of data suggest a link between the pathophysiological process of AD and epileptogenesis:.
 (i) a third of patients with epilepsy develops MA, (ii) the occurrence of epilepsy in AD is an aggravating factor for cognition, (iii) in animal models of AD, the relationship between neuronal hyperexcitability and amyloid deposits is bidirectional, the amyloid protein has a pro-seizure effect and the presence of epilepsy increases the amyloid deposits, (iv) in these models, the administration of an antiepileptic drug protects from deterioration of cognition, (v) the close relationship between amyloid and neuronal hyperexcitability might be mediated by the inflammatory processes associated with AD and particularly the microglial activation which role in epileptogenesis has been shown elsewhere.
 Investigators hypothesize that in a subgroup of patients who develop epilepsy after 60 years, the occurrence of epilepsy might reflect the presence of an ongoing amyloid pathology. Our goal is to identify through biomarkers of AD in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients who develop an epilepsy after 60 years with normal MRI and normal cognition those at high risk of later developing clinically defined AD.
 Identifying patients with amyloid pathology which would be expressed through epilepsy before the onset of cognitive dysfunction might help to adapt both the management of seizures and of the cognitive dysfunction.

>>NCT02769000
Evaluate safety and toxicity/adverse events associated with delivery of low dose whole brain irradiation in patients with early Alzheimer's dementia according to the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria.. As a secondary goal it will establish whether or not the intervention with low dose whole brain irradiation stabilizes or decreases cerebral amyloid deposits and whether these correlate with the recognized progression of Alzheimer's dementia. The investigators will also collect information from the FDG and Amyvid PET Scans to determine if there is any correlation between neurocognitive/quality of life scores and changes in amyloid plaque size, number and location. Evaluate safety and toxicity/adverse events associated with delivery of low dose whole brain irradiation in patients with early Alzheimer's dementia according to the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria.. As a secondary goal it will establish whether or not the intervention with low dose whole brain irradiation stabilizes or decreases cerebral amyloid deposits and whether these correlate with the recognized progression of Alzheimer's dementia. The investigators will also collect information from the FDG and Amyvid PET Scans to determine if there is any correlation between neurocognitive/quality of life scores and changes in amyloid plaque size, number and location.

>>NCT00249158
The purpose of the study is to compare the effectiveness of an oral formulation of risperidone (an antipsychotic medication) to that of placebo for treating behavioral and psychological signs and symptoms in dementia (BPSSD), specifically aggression, delusions and hallucinations, in patients with dementia. The purpose of the study is to compare the effectiveness of an oral formulation of risperidone (an antipsychotic medication) to that of placebo for treating behavioral and psychological signs and symptoms in dementia (BPSSD), specifically aggression, delusions and hallucinations, in patients with dementia.

>>NCT01434667
This study is intended to examine the impact of receiving a genetic risk assessment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) among individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). This study is intended to examine the impact of receiving a genetic risk assessment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) among individuals with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).

>>NCT01606488
Postoperative cognitive decline (POCD) affects up to 50% of non-cardiac surgical patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age.
 This study will test the hypothesis that preoperative presence of brain beta-amyloid plaques in non-demented subjects increases postoperative cognitive decline (POCD) in elderly subjects scheduled for hip or knee replacement.
 The investigators hypothesize that preoperative beta-amyloid plaques will predict postoperative cognitive decline.

>>NCT00701532
-Context: Study objectives Primary: impact of modafinil versus placebo on DAT density modifications in the striatal and extra-striatal regions in cocaine dependent subjects hospitalised from D3 to D21.
 Primary Hypothesis:.
 More rapid normalisation of DAT concentrations measured by PET using modafinil versus placebo from D3 to D21 during cocaine detoxification. -Context: Study objectives Primary: impact of modafinil versus placebo on DAT density modifications in the striatal and extra-striatal regions in cocaine dependent subjects hospitalised from D3 to D21.
 Primary Hypothesis:.
 More rapid normalisation of DAT concentrations measured by PET using modafinil versus placebo from D3 to D21 during cocaine detoxification.

>>NCT01701089
This open-label, multiple dose, parallel group study will assess the monoamine oxidase in the brain by in vivo positron emission tomography (PET) and safety of RO4602522 in patients with Alzheimer disease and in healthy volunteers. Patients and volunteers will receive multiple doses of RO4602522 and up to three injections of C11-L-deprenyl-D2 used in the PET.

>>NCT00880412
The objective of this 3-month study is to assess the safety and efficacy of EHT 0202 in addition to acetylcholinesterase inhibitor in patients suffering from Alzheimer's Disease. The objective of this 3-month study is to assess the safety and efficacy of EHT 0202 in addition to acetylcholinesterase inhibitor in patients suffering from Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02211079
The purpose of this study is to assess the effects of single and multiple once daily doses of 50 milligram (mg) of JNJ-54861911 on pharmacokinetics (PK) (study of the way a drug enters and leaves the blood and tissues over time) of caffeine, midazolam and tolbutamide in healthy male participants. The purpose of this study is to assess the effects of single and multiple once daily doses of 50 milligram (mg) of JNJ-54861911 on pharmacokinetics (PK) (study of the way a drug enters and leaves the blood and tissues over time) of caffeine, midazolam and tolbutamide in healthy male participants.

>>NCT02347202
A 20+ year randomized controlled trial (RCT) demonstrated the many benefits of a counseling and support intervention for spouse caregivers, the NYU Caregiver Intervention (NYUCI). The NYU Caregiver Intervention (NYUCI) is an evidence-based intervention that provides counseling and support for families involved in the care of a relative or friend with Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD). Most notably, the NYUCI substantially reduced caregiver's depressive symptoms, improved their physical health and extended the time persons with ADRD remained at home by an average of 1.5 years (Mittelman et al., AG14634, formerly MH42216; See http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17101889).
 The intervention is now being widely implemented in-person but there are barriers that prevent many caregivers from receiving its benefits, including geographic distance; impediments to older adults leaving their homes; and travel considerations for counselors which make it impossible to provide the NYUCI in person.
 The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of an online videoconferencing version of the NYUCI. This innovative application has massive implications for social service delivery to older adults, because it will make it possible to deliver an in-person intervention, via the internet, which is already evidenced based to older adult caregivers who cannot currently be served. It will create the online reservation and management technology linking counselors with families as well as the evidence of effectiveness of providing such services via secure video teleconferencing vehicles. The proposed Telehealth Technology for Distance Counseling (TTDC) and related online educational training modules will connect skilled providers to the families of persons with dementia without regard to geographic location. Implications for rural healthcare delivery are particularly persuasive. To the investigators knowledge, this will be the first large-scale TTDC to be developed and rigorously tested with a randomized controlled trial. The investigators hypothesize that such a system, coupled with online training for providers and families on tele- counseling and distance caregiving, will have similar benefits to those achieved with in-person counseling during the original NYUCI RCT.
 This project includes an online reservation and management technology linking counselors with families via secure videoconferencing vehicles. The Telehealth Technology for Distance Counseling (TTDC) and online technology developed as part of this overall effort, will connect skilled providers to the families of persons with dementia without regard to geographic location. The related online clinical modules (i.e., interactive, computer-based educational materials) developed as a part of this grant effort will prepare counselors to provide the intervention and caregivers to utilize the internet software, to be able to participate in counseling.
 The TTDC will include a scheduling system to link counselors to families at their mutual convenience and assure delivery in a cost-effective manner. The TTDC has the additional potential to transform ADRD care in ethnic and culturally diverse communities by connecting highly trained NYUCI counselors with specialized language and cultural skills to families who would not have access to these resources locally.
 In this study investigators will have 240 caregivers navigate the online educational module and the online reservation system for connecting caregivers with social workers. Half of the caregivers will then be paired with social service providers to receive counseling over the telephone and the other half with be paired with social service providers to receive counseling via Zoom, a video conferencing program. Recruiting across the United States and Toronto, Canada.

>>NCT02022943
The Alzheimer's Prevention Registry (www.endALZnow.org) will collect contact and demographic information on individuals. The objective is to provide information the latest news and advances in Alzheimer's prevention research and to inform enrollees about research studies in their community. Enrolled individuals will receive regular email communications. As research studies become available, individuals will be notified via email with information as to how proceed should they be interested. Registry enrollees are under no obligation to participate in a research study. Study opportunities may include surveys, healthy lifestyle interventions (e.g., diet, exercise), memory & thinking tests, brain scans and investigational drug trials. To join the Registry, please visit www.endALZnow.org.

>>NCT00982202
This study was designed to assess the safety and tolerability of pioglitazone, an approved drug for type 2 diabetes, in non diabetic patients with Alzheimer's disease. It was also designed to generate preliminary information on whether pioglitazone might slow progression of Alzheimer's disease. This study was designed to assess the safety and tolerability of pioglitazone, an approved drug for type 2 diabetes, in non diabetic patients with Alzheimer's disease. It was also designed to generate preliminary information on whether pioglitazone might slow progression of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01039194
The purpose of the study is to find out if the plasma concentration of galantamine extended release is changed when BMS-708163 is administered at the same time.

>>NCT00086138
The purpose of this study is to learn whether treating individuals with Alzheimer's disease and depression with the anti-depressant medication sertraline (Zoloft) is helpful to people with Alzheimer's disease and to their families and caregivers. The purpose of this study is to learn whether treating individuals with Alzheimer's disease and depression with the anti-depressant medication sertraline (Zoloft) is helpful to people with Alzheimer's disease and to their families and caregivers.

>>NCT00593138
The objectives of this study are to document the pharmacokinetics of the adequacy of DAT receptor occupancy d-MPH formulation in three doses (20 mg, 30 mg and 40 mg) using PET scanning with C-11 Altropane as the ligand across a range of times. It has been estimated that MPH is effective when the average CNS DAT occupancy is 50% or greater. Focalin XR has been shown to be clinically effective in an analog classroom as early as 1 hour and as late as 12 hours. Therefore, it is hypothesized that the average DAT occupancy will be adequate (50% or greater) at time periods corresponding to the times of clinical efficacy.
 The first objective is to examine the onset of action by testing whether average DAT occupancy will be adequate (50% or greater) at 1 hour after dosing for each dose tested (20 mg, 30 mg, 40 mg).
 The second objective is to test the adequacy of average DAT occupancy in a range of later times for each dose. The times chosen (8, 10 and 12 hours) correspond to times Focalin XR has been shown to be clinically effective in an analogue classroom study. A range of times have been chosen since, while effective at 12 hours, the degree of clinical effectiveness decreased with later time periods. The adequacy of DAT occupancy across this range of time periods will provide important details on the in vivo molecular action of the medicine at periods of critical clinical activity.
 The third exploratory objective is to examine a time period later then those previously tested with the highest dose. Since the clinical effectiveness of Focalin XR has not been tested out to 14 hours, it is unknown whether it is effective at 14 hours. If Focalin XR were to be effective at 14 hours it would be more likely at the highest dose. The objectives of this study are to document the pharmacokinetics of the adequacy of DAT receptor occupancy d-MPH formulation in three doses (20 mg, 30 mg and 40 mg) using PET scanning with C-11 Altropane as the ligand across a range of times. It has been estimated that MPH is effective when the average CNS DAT occupancy is 50% or greater. Focalin XR has been shown to be clinically effective in an analog classroom as early as 1 hour and as late as 12 hours. Therefore, it is hypothesized that the average DAT occupancy will be adequate (50% or greater) at time periods corresponding to the times of clinical efficacy.
 The first objective is to examine the onset of action by testing whether average DAT occupancy will be adequate (50% or greater) at 1 hour after dosing for each dose tested (20 mg, 30 mg, 40 mg).
 The second objective is to test the adequacy of average DAT occupancy in a range of later times for each dose. The times chosen (8, 10 and 12 hours) correspond to times Focalin XR has been shown to be clinically effective in an analogue classroom study. A range of times have been chosen since, while effective at 12 hours, the degree of clinical effectiveness decreased with later time periods. The adequacy of DAT occupancy across this range of time periods will provide important details on the in vivo molecular action of the medicine at periods of critical clinical activity.
 The third exploratory objective is to examine a time period later then those previously tested with the highest dose. Since the clinical effectiveness of Focalin XR has not been tested out to 14 hours, it is unknown whether it is effective at 14 hours. If Focalin XR were to be effective at 14 hours it would be more likely at the highest dose.

>>NCT01403519
Tau pathology and tangles have been associated with cognitive dysfunction causing neurodegeneration. AD, the most abundant tauopathy is characterized by amyloid plaques and tau tangles. An abundance of tau inclusions, in the absence of amyloid deposits, defines Pick's disease (frontotemporal lobar degeneration), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and other diseases including frontal atrophy associated with cognitive clinical dysfunction of frontal dysexecutive syndrome, progressive nonfluent aphasia and semantic dementia as recently reviewed (Gozes 2010). It is the investigators aim to follow other protein expression [as per recent publications (Marksteiner et al., 2011)] in blood and CSF samples from those tauopathies.
 Significance: Results should establish the possibility of using tau and other proteins as markers for early detection and disease progression in FTD, also in comparison to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tau pathology and tangles have been associated with cognitive dysfunction causing neurodegeneration. AD, the most abundant tauopathy is characterized by amyloid plaques and tau tangles. An abundance of tau inclusions, in the absence of amyloid deposits, defines Pick's disease (frontotemporal lobar degeneration), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and other diseases including frontal atrophy associated with cognitive clinical dysfunction of frontal dysexecutive syndrome, progressive nonfluent aphasia and semantic dementia as recently reviewed (Gozes 2010). It is the investigators aim to follow other protein expression [as per recent publications (Marksteiner et al., 2011)] in blood and CSF samples from those tauopathies.
 Significance: Results should establish the possibility of using tau and other proteins as markers for early detection and disease progression in FTD, also in comparison to Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00253227
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease using a flexible dose design. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease using a flexible dose design.

>>NCT00411580
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability and A-specific antibody response of CAD106 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.
 Patients also had a 2 year follow-up to assess disease progression where no drug was administered.

>>NCT00031018
In this phase I-II parallel design, randomized, double-blind clinical trial we will determine if 3000 or 30000 units ingested hrIFN-a prevents deterioration of cognitive functioning in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (AD) and whether ingested hrIFN-a treatment decreases acute phase reactants and pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 in mild to moderate AD. We predict that the novel anti-inflammatory agent ingested human recombinant interferon alpha (hrIFN-a) will modulate inflammation and inhibit the natural history of AD progression. If you are eligible, you will receive Aricept for 5 weeks (donezepil) and thereafter in addition to Aricept either placebo (inactive substance) or interferon alpha at 3000 or 30000 units every day for 12 months. In this phase I-II parallel design, randomized, double-blind clinical trial we will determine if 3000 or 30000 units ingested hrIFN-a prevents deterioration of cognitive functioning in patients with dementia of Alzheimer's type (AD) and whether ingested hrIFN-a treatment decreases acute phase reactants and pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 in mild to moderate AD. We predict that the novel anti-inflammatory agent ingested human recombinant interferon alpha (hrIFN-a) will modulate inflammation and inhibit the natural history of AD progression. If you are eligible, you will receive Aricept for 5 weeks (donezepil) and thereafter in addition to Aricept either placebo (inactive substance) or interferon alpha at 3000 or 30000 units every day for 12 months.

>>NCT00676143
This is a study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of multiple doses of bapineuzumab in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer Disease. Patients will receive either bapineuzumab or placebo. Each patient's participation will last approximately 1.5 years.

>>NCT02323217
The imdazoline2 binding site (I2BS) is known to reside inside astrocytes. Changes in the numbers of I2BS in post mortem tissue has implicated them in a range of psychiatric conditions such as depression and addiction, along with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's chorea. Preclinical studies have also demonstrated functional interactions with the opioid system, where I2BS ligands have been shown to affect tolerance to morphine and alleviate some of the morphine withdrawal syndrome in rats. Recently the I2BS and I2BS ligands have been shown to have some interesting analgesic effects in different models of pain and a novel I2BS ligand, CR4056, is currently undergoing Phase II clinical trials as a novel treatment for neuropathic pain and acute non- specific pain states.
 The location of I2BS on astrocytic glial cells and the possibility that they may in some way regulate glial fibrillary acidic protein have led to increased interest into the role of I2BS and I2BS ligands in conditions characterised by marked gliosis. The number of I2BS has been shown to increase in Alzheimer's disease post mortem and it has also been suggested that I2BS may be a marker for the severity and malignancy of human glioblastomas.
 The lack of suitable imaging tools for the I2BS has meant that information regarding the number and distribution of I2BS in the brain has come from preclinical species and in vitro post-mortem studies. The recent development of [11C]BU99008 as a suitable PET ligand to quantify I2BS in vivo, enables the direct quantification of I2BS availability and regional distribution in the living human brain. In this study the investigators plan to utilise [11C]BU99008 to quantify the regional brain availability of I2BS in the human brain in vivo using PET. The imdazoline2 binding site (I2BS) is known to reside inside astrocytes. Changes in the numbers of I2BS in post mortem tissue has implicated them in a range of psychiatric conditions such as depression and addiction, along with neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's chorea. Preclinical studies have also demonstrated functional interactions with the opioid system, where I2BS ligands have been shown to affect tolerance to morphine and alleviate some of the morphine withdrawal syndrome in rats. Recently the I2BS and I2BS ligands have been shown to have some interesting analgesic effects in different models of pain and a novel I2BS ligand, CR4056, is currently undergoing Phase II clinical trials as a novel treatment for neuropathic pain and acute non- specific pain states.
 The location of I2BS on astrocytic glial cells and the possibility that they may in some way regulate glial fibrillary acidic protein have led to increased interest into the role of I2BS and I2BS ligands in conditions characterised by marked gliosis. The number of I2BS has been shown to increase in Alzheimer's disease post mortem and it has also been suggested that I2BS may be a marker for the severity and malignancy of human glioblastomas.
 The lack of suitable imaging tools for the I2BS has meant that information regarding the number and distribution of I2BS in the brain has come from preclinical species and in vitro post-mortem studies. The recent development of [11C]BU99008 as a suitable PET ligand to quantify I2BS in vivo, enables the direct quantification of I2BS availability and regional distribution in the living human brain. In this study the investigators plan to utilise [11C]BU99008 to quantify the regional brain availability of I2BS in the human brain in vivo using PET.

>>NCT01978548
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of JNJ-54861911 in patients with prodromal Alzheimer's disease (pAD). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of JNJ-54861911 in patients with prodromal Alzheimer's disease (pAD).

>>NCT02249403
The objective of this trial was to assess the dose-response relationship of symptomatic efficacy of talsaclidine base on ADAScog and to assess safety and tolerability.

>>NCT02300584
The purpose of this study is to refine and test the web-based delivery of a well-established in-person group program that provides information and education to informal caregivers (family and friends) of persons with Alzheimer's disease (or related illnesses). The purpose of this study is to refine and test the web-based delivery of a well-established in-person group program that provides information and education to informal caregivers (family and friends) of persons with Alzheimer's disease (or related illnesses).

>>NCT00505167
It is well known that in the brain of the patients with Alzheimer's disease there is a glutamatergic hyperstimulation leading to neuronal death. Memantine is a low affinity antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors. The use of this drug in the early phases of the disease could provide neuroprotective effects and delay of progression. The effects of memantine should be compared to those of donepezil, which is the most prescribed anticholinesterase drug. It is well known that in the brain of the patients with Alzheimer's disease there is a glutamatergic hyperstimulation leading to neuronal death. Memantine is a low affinity antagonist of NMDA glutamate receptors. The use of this drug in the early phases of the disease could provide neuroprotective effects and delay of progression. The effects of memantine should be compared to those of donepezil, which is the most prescribed anticholinesterase drug.

>>NCT02833870
Cares of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related disorders are presenting a real public health challenge. Because of the limited effectiveness of pharmacological treatments, there is a growing interest in care approach based on nonpharmacological treatments, such as musical interventions. Several lines of evidence suggest that musical interventions could improve behaviour, emotion and even cognition in patients with AD. However, very few studies respond to the methodological constraints required for clinical controlled trials carried out in well selected groups of patients. The efficiency of such care approaches is not scientifically proved yet and the impact of musical interventions has rarely been compared to another pleasant intervention, leaving open the question about the specific benefits of music in patients with dementia. The main goal of this research project is to demonstrate short and longer-term efficiencies and the specificity of musical interventions in dementia by investigating their effects not only in patients but also in familial and professional caregivers. Cares of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related disorders are presenting a real public health challenge. Because of the limited effectiveness of pharmacological treatments, there is a growing interest in care approach based on nonpharmacological treatments, such as musical interventions. Several lines of evidence suggest that musical interventions could improve behaviour, emotion and even cognition in patients with AD. However, very few studies respond to the methodological constraints required for clinical controlled trials carried out in well selected groups of patients. The efficiency of such care approaches is not scientifically proved yet and the impact of musical interventions has rarely been compared to another pleasant intervention, leaving open the question about the specific benefits of music in patients with dementia. The main goal of this research project is to demonstrate short and longer-term efficiencies and the specificity of musical interventions in dementia by investigating their effects not only in patients but also in familial and professional caregivers.

>>NCT01825330
The study tests the effect of the NeuroAD on Alzheimer patients' cognitive function. The NeuroAD uses non-invasive stimulation of both magnetic and cognitive training. The study tests the effect of the NeuroAD on Alzheimer patients' cognitive function. The NeuroAD uses non-invasive stimulation of both magnetic and cognitive training.

>>NCT00338117
The purpose of this study was to determine the safety and effectiveness of a relatively high dose of galantamine, 32 mg /day in a three-times daily dosage, compared with placebo in treating patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study was to determine the safety and effectiveness of a relatively high dose of galantamine, 32 mg /day in a three-times daily dosage, compared with placebo in treating patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02759887
In order to treat individuals with Down syndrome (DS) better and more efficiently and to gain more insights on its relation to Alzheimer's disease (AD), a comprehensive understanding is needed for its progression in the early or preclinical phase using various biomarkers. DS is a significant risk factor for the early development of AD, with plaques and tangles typically developing by age 35. A better understanding is needed of early markers of the disease in DS patients. Additionally the DS population represents a unique group - due to this elevated risk for AD - to examine biomarkers that may translate in general outside of the DS population to individuals at risk for developing late onset AD. In this proposal, the researchers will assess the longitudinal changes of various biomarkers in a cohort of individuals similar in design to the cross-sectional sectional study in the preliminary data. In order to treat individuals with Down syndrome (DS) better and more efficiently and to gain more insights on its relation to Alzheimer's disease (AD), a comprehensive understanding is needed for its progression in the early or preclinical phase using various biomarkers. DS is a significant risk factor for the early development of AD, with plaques and tangles typically developing by age 35. A better understanding is needed of early markers of the disease in DS patients. Additionally the DS population represents a unique group - due to this elevated risk for AD - to examine biomarkers that may translate in general outside of the DS population to individuals at risk for developing late onset AD. In this proposal, the researchers will assess the longitudinal changes of various biomarkers in a cohort of individuals similar in design to the cross-sectional sectional study in the preliminary data.

>>NCT01406145
This study is intended to determine the safety and tolerability of ASP0777 in subjects with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) taking a stable dose of donepezil.

>>NCT00001480
The purpose of this study is to evaluate people with mild memory problems, those with dementia, those at risk for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) and healthy volunteers to identify markers of AD before the changes that occur with the disease begin.
 The origin and markers of progression for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are relatively obscure. Despite increased understanding of the underlying biology of AD, its clinical diagnosis is still made only after progressive cognitive decline; definitive diagnosis is confirmed at autopsy. This study will examine biomarker changes over time in a distinct cohort of people with an increased risk of developing AD. The study will also identify and track biological changes that occur with progressive dementia and compare those changes to the known cognitive and emotional disturbances that characterize AD.
 Individuals with a first-degree relative with AD will be recruited into an at-risk cohort. They will be followed and compared to a group of healthy volunteers for a minimum of 8 years. The purpose of this study is to evaluate people with mild memory problems, those with dementia, those at risk for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) and healthy volunteers to identify markers of AD before the changes that occur with the disease begin.
 The origin and markers of progression for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are relatively obscure. Despite increased understanding of the underlying biology of AD, its clinical diagnosis is still made only after progressive cognitive decline; definitive diagnosis is confirmed at autopsy. This study will examine biomarker changes over time in a distinct cohort of people with an increased risk of developing AD. The study will also identify and track biological changes that occur with progressive dementia and compare those changes to the known cognitive and emotional disturbances that characterize AD.
 Individuals with a first-degree relative with AD will be recruited into an at-risk cohort. They will be followed and compared to a group of healthy volunteers for a minimum of 8 years.

>>NCT00480870
The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of the anticholinesterase drug donepezil on sleep in Alzheimer disease patients. Sleep structure and respiratory parameters will be analyzed by polysomnography. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of the anticholinesterase drug donepezil on sleep in Alzheimer disease patients. Sleep structure and respiratory parameters will be analyzed by polysomnography.

>>NCT00880555
Alzheimer's disease (AD) often manifests as a memory disorder before dementia develops. Dementia is considered to be present when a person can no longer handle complex activities of daily living, such as managing finances. This study will investigate the relationship between changes in the ability to manage finances and brain perfusion, which will be measured using continuous arterial spin-labeling (an experimental MRI). Subjects will also undergo neuropsychological tests focusing on several types of memory and thought process, with special emphasis on semantic memory. An important question to be addressed is whether changes in function are better predicted by the neuropsychological tests or by the brain scan. Alzheimer's disease (AD) often manifests as a memory disorder before dementia develops. Dementia is considered to be present when a person can no longer handle complex activities of daily living, such as managing finances. This study will investigate the relationship between changes in the ability to manage finances and brain perfusion, which will be measured using continuous arterial spin-labeling (an experimental MRI). Subjects will also undergo neuropsychological tests focusing on several types of memory and thought process, with special emphasis on semantic memory. An important question to be addressed is whether changes in function are better predicted by the neuropsychological tests or by the brain scan.

>>NCT00628017
This preliminary study is aimed to investigate whether it is feasible to conduct a study to use fish oil compared to the placebo(olive oil) in people with cognitive impairment. We will also explore whether fish oil has better efficacy in some clinical aspects in people with cognitive impairment during 24 weeks intervention. The major clinical outcome will be:.
 1. general clinical impression.
 2. cognitive function This preliminary study is aimed to investigate whether it is feasible to conduct a study to use fish oil compared to the placebo(olive oil) in people with cognitive impairment. We will also explore whether fish oil has better efficacy in some clinical aspects in people with cognitive impairment during 24 weeks intervention. The major clinical outcome will be:.
 1. general clinical impression.
 2. cognitive function.

>>NCT01696019
A pilot randomized clinical trial was conducted in a random sample of 120 non-demented Chinese elders (ages 60-79) living in a defined community in Shanghai, China to compare the effects of interventions (fast walking, Tai Chi, group intellectual discussion) to no intervention with respect to change in cognition and whole brain volume determined by repeated neuropsychological batteries and MRI scans. Aims included determining the feasibility of recruiting and retaining a random sample of people age 60+ for such a trial as well as collection of preliminary data on the efficacy of the interventions. The long-term goal of this research program is to determine whether sustained physical and/or mental exercise interventions are efficacious in delaying the onset of dementia and to understand the role and mechanisms of brain growth in this process. A pilot randomized clinical trial was conducted in a random sample of 120 non-demented Chinese elders (ages 60-79) living in a defined community in Shanghai, China to compare the effects of interventions (fast walking, Tai Chi, group intellectual discussion) to no intervention with respect to change in cognition and whole brain volume determined by repeated neuropsychological batteries and MRI scans. Aims included determining the feasibility of recruiting and retaining a random sample of people age 60+ for such a trial as well as collection of preliminary data on the efficacy of the interventions. The long-term goal of this research program is to determine whether sustained physical and/or mental exercise interventions are efficacious in delaying the onset of dementia and to understand the role and mechanisms of brain growth in this process.

>>NCT00454870
The purpose of this study is to determine in an 8-week treatment study if MEM 3454 is a safe and effective treatment for patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine in an 8-week treatment study if MEM 3454 is a safe and effective treatment for patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01300728
Patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are a group recognized at being at high risk of progressing to Alzheimer disease. Treatment of MCI with immunotherapy with intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) could potentially reduce the risk of progression to Alzheimer disease.
 This study will evaluate the efficacy of intravenous immunoglobulin in patients with MCI over 24 months after the first infusion. This study will also document conversion from MCI to Alzheimer's Disease. Patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are a group recognized at being at high risk of progressing to Alzheimer disease. Treatment of MCI with immunotherapy with intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIG) could potentially reduce the risk of progression to Alzheimer disease.
 This study will evaluate the efficacy of intravenous immunoglobulin in patients with MCI over 24 months after the first infusion. This study will also document conversion from MCI to Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00105612
The purpose of this trial is to test whether a memory and organizational aid in the form of a document that summarizes and simplifies a study's key points can improve the decision-making abilities and competency of mild to early moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The purpose of this trial is to test whether a memory and organizational aid in the form of a document that summarizes and simplifies a study's key points can improve the decision-making abilities and competency of mild to early moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients.

>>NCT02778581
The aim of the study is to evaluate the beneficial effect of a mixture of vegetal oils with a composition related to short, medium and long unsaturated chain fatty acids on patients with a diagnose of cognitive impairment or mild to moderate Alzheimer disease The aim of the study is to evaluate the beneficial effect of a mixture of vegetal oils with a composition related to short, medium and long unsaturated chain fatty acids on patients with a diagnose of cognitive impairment or mild to moderate Alzheimer disease.

>>NCT01222351
The overall goal of this project is to establish and validate biomarkers associated with the risk and progression of late onset Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment and cognitive decline. The investigators will use baseline and longitudinal measurements of plasma amyloid beta-40 and amyloid beta-42 to investigate the risk of developing mild cognitive impairment and late onset Alzheimer's disease, as well as the rates of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease progression. Participants will be selected on the basis of change in plasma amyloid beta levels over prior assessment intervals. The purpose of the study is to examine whether brain amyloid plaque load, which will be measured with positron emission tomography and x-ray computed tomography brain imaging using Florbetaben from Bayer, varies as a function of change in plasma levels of amyloid beta. The driving hypothesis of the study is that high plasma levels of amyloid beta are an antecedent indicator of increased risk of cognitive decline, mild cognitive impairment and incident late onset Alzheimer's disease and that declining plasma levels of amyloid beta are associated with the onset of cognitive decline. Further, high plasma levels of amyloid beta are related to increased levels of amyloid beta in the brain as measured by positron emission tomography positivity and the specific pattern of positron emission tomography positivity and a decline in plasma amyloid beta over time are associated with the onset of cognitive decline associated with late onset Alzheimer's disease. The overall goal of this project is to establish and validate biomarkers associated with the risk and progression of late onset Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment and cognitive decline. The investigators will use baseline and longitudinal measurements of plasma amyloid beta-40 and amyloid beta-42 to investigate the risk of developing mild cognitive impairment and late onset Alzheimer's disease, as well as the rates of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease progression. Participants will be selected on the basis of change in plasma amyloid beta levels over prior assessment intervals. The purpose of the study is to examine whether brain amyloid plaque load, which will be measured with positron emission tomography and x-ray computed tomography brain imaging using Florbetaben from Bayer, varies as a function of change in plasma levels of amyloid beta. The driving hypothesis of the study is that high plasma levels of amyloid beta are an antecedent indicator of increased risk of cognitive decline, mild cognitive impairment and incident late onset Alzheimer's disease and that declining plasma levels of amyloid beta are associated with the onset of cognitive decline. Further, high plasma levels of amyloid beta are related to increased levels of amyloid beta in the brain as measured by positron emission tomography positivity and the specific pattern of positron emission tomography positivity and a decline in plasma amyloid beta over time are associated with the onset of cognitive decline associated with late onset Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02825732
The investigators will investigate which patients' characteristics are associated with caregivers burden and its evolution for outpatients visiting a memory clinic, in particular how functional autonomy, behavioral and psychological symptoms as well as patients comorbidities can influence caregiver burden.
 The study will be conducted among outpatients with progressive cognitive complaint followed in a Memory Clinic and their primary caregiver. The investigators hypothesis that caregivers experience a higher burden due to disease symptoms such as impairment of functional autonomy, behavioral and cognitive impairment, whatever the aetiology of the cognitive decline.

>>NCT02244541
The primary objective of this Phase 2a study is to evaluate the maximal tolerated dose of ANAVEX2-73 in patients with AD in a repeated-dose administration scheme, with the secondary objectives being to explore the relationship between dosing regimen and pharmacodynamics efficacy outcomes and to evaluate the bioavailability of the oral form used and to explore the relationship of ANAVEX2-73 as add-on therapy to AD standard of care. The primary objective of this Phase 2a study is to evaluate the maximal tolerated dose of ANAVEX2-73 in patients with AD in a repeated-dose administration scheme, with the secondary objectives being to explore the relationship between dosing regimen and pharmacodynamics efficacy outcomes and to evaluate the bioavailability of the oral form used and to explore the relationship of ANAVEX2-73 as add-on therapy to AD standard of care.

>>NCT00325728
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of ramelteon, once daily (QD), in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease and sleep disturbance The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of ramelteon, once daily (QD), in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease and sleep disturbance.

>>NCT01181310
The drug, scopolamine, can result in short-term impairments of cognitive function, attention and memory that resemble those seen in aging and Alzheimer's disease. This study tested the capability of both individual and combined doses of MK-3134 and the current standard treatment: donepezil (Aricept), to reverse such impairments, following a single dose of scopolamine. Participants were evaluated after each of 5 different treatment periods (in a cross-over, double-dummy design): A: placebo to match both donepezil (oral [PO]) and MK-3134 (PO) followed by placebo scopolamine (subcutaneous [SQ]); B: placebo to match both donepezil (PO) and MK-3134 (PO), followed by scopolamine SQ; C: MK-3134 (PO) followed by scopolamine SQ; D: donepezil (PO) followed by scopolamine SQ; E: MK-3134 (PO) and donepezil (PO) followed by scopolamine SQ. The doses of MK3134, donepezil and scopolamine were the same over all treatment arms in which the specified drug was administered. There were 8 total visits for each treatment period, including 5 Treatment Visits requiring 14-day intervals between visits for study-drug washout. Participants were assessed for cognitive function before and after each treatment period during the Treatment Visits.

>>NCT01600859
Subjects will be adults aged 50 to 85 years who have subjective memory complaints and mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Subjects taking thyroxine or thyroid supplements and subjects receiving an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) and/or memantine for AD must be on a stable dose for at least 12 weeks prior to Screening and remain on their stable dose throughout the trial. Subjects will receive placebo or a single oral dose of E2609. Safety assessments will be conducted. Additionally, the pharmacokinetics of E2609 and drug effects will be evaluated using cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers and cognitive and psychological measures.

>>NCT02686190
Background: Management of patients with Alzheimer's disease associated with behavioral disturbances is difficult especially in those with agitation/aggression and insomnia and nighttime behaviors. No treatment has shown any efficacy to control these disturbances and psychotropics drugs, i.e. sedatives and hypnotics have numerous adverse effects.
 Objective: Assess the effect of bright light therapy on behavioral disturbances of patients with Alzheimer's disease, especially the effect on agitation/aggression and insomnia and nighttime behaviours.
 Study design: Multicenter non pharmacological intervention trial, controlled, randomized, open, two-arm design : control group and intervention group.
 Centres : Rehabilitation and long term-care units of 4 geriatric hospital wards.
 Patients: 120 patients admitted in geriatric hospital wards (30 by centre), with probable Alzheimer's disease according to DSM-IV diagnosis criteria and agitation/aggression (associated or not with insomnia or nighttime behaviors) according to the Neuropsychiatric inventory, nurse scale (NPI-nurse).
 Treatments: Intervention group: patients will participate in a program of bright light therapy realised during a one-hour sessions of occupational therapy,. These sessions will be realised for groups of 6 patients and will be done every week day, at late morning, for 4 consecutive weeks). During the session, patients will be exposed to 10000 lux-bright light. Patients of control group will participate in a program of occupational therapy of same duration and rhythm, realised in standard light conditions (about 300 lux).
 Assessment: Patients with be assessed on 3 occasions: inclusion, two and four weeks after the beginning of the programs. Assessment will comprise ; NPI-nurse scale and Cohen-Mansfield scale for behaviour disturbances, wrist actimetry for sleep and nighttime behaviours (total sleep length, nocturnal wake episodes and nocturnal motor agitation).
 Judgment criteria: Principal: changes in the agitation/aggression item of NPI-nurse scale. Secondary: changes of the nightime behaviours item of NPI-nurse scale, the Cohen-Mansfield, total sleep duration and numbers of nocturnal wake episodes measured by wrist actimetry.
 Statistics: Changes in agitation/aggression scores od the two groups will be compared by Mann and Whitney test.
 Expected results and perspectives; If bright light exposure is efficient, professional caregivers of Alzheimer's disease patients might apply this cheap and non pharmacological approach to improve behaviour and sleep of these patients. This study might contribute to better define the place of a non invasive and promising technique, wrist actigraphy, to assess sleep and behaviour disturbances in psychogeriatric patients Background: Management of patients with Alzheimer's disease associated with behavioral disturbances is difficult especially in those with agitation/aggression and insomnia and nighttime behaviors. No treatment has shown any efficacy to control these disturbances and psychotropics drugs, i.e. sedatives and hypnotics have numerous adverse effects.
 Objective: Assess the effect of bright light therapy on behavioral disturbances of patients with Alzheimer's disease, especially the effect on agitation/aggression and insomnia and nighttime behaviours.
 Study design: Multicenter non pharmacological intervention trial, controlled, randomized, open, two-arm design : control group and intervention group.
 Centres : Rehabilitation and long term-care units of 4 geriatric hospital wards.
 Patients: 120 patients admitted in geriatric hospital wards (30 by centre), with probable Alzheimer's disease according to DSM-IV diagnosis criteria and agitation/aggression (associated or not with insomnia or nighttime behaviors) according to the Neuropsychiatric inventory, nurse scale (NPI-nurse).
 Treatments: Intervention group: patients will participate in a program of bright light therapy realised during a one-hour sessions of occupational therapy,. These sessions will be realised for groups of 6 patients and will be done every week day, at late morning, for 4 consecutive weeks). During the session, patients will be exposed to 10000 lux-bright light. Patients of control group will participate in a program of occupational therapy of same duration and rhythm, realised in standard light conditions (about 300 lux).
 Assessment: Patients with be assessed on 3 occasions: inclusion, two and four weeks after the beginning of the programs. Assessment will comprise ; NPI-nurse scale and Cohen-Mansfield scale for behaviour disturbances, wrist actimetry for sleep and nighttime behaviours (total sleep length, nocturnal wake episodes and nocturnal motor agitation).
 Judgment criteria: Principal: changes in the agitation/aggression item of NPI-nurse scale. Secondary: changes of the nightime behaviours item of NPI-nurse scale, the Cohen-Mansfield, total sleep duration and numbers of nocturnal wake episodes measured by wrist actimetry.
 Statistics: Changes in agitation/aggression scores od the two groups will be compared by Mann and Whitney test.
 Expected results and perspectives; If bright light exposure is efficient, professional caregivers of Alzheimer's disease patients might apply this cheap and non pharmacological approach to improve behaviour and sleep of these patients. This study might contribute to better define the place of a non invasive and promising technique, wrist actigraphy, to assess sleep and behaviour disturbances in psychogeriatric patients.

>>NCT00160147
This is a 10-week study with bifeprunox and placebo in elderly subjects with psychosis and behavioral disturbances associated with dementia of the alzheimer's type.

>>NCT02624778
The study will evaluate the effect of LY3002813 on brain scans. The study will evaluate the safety of LY3002813 by looking at adverse events (side effects). The study will also look at the effect the body has on LY3002813. Study participants will have mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD or mild to moderate AD.
 The study involves 3 parts.
 - Part A in which participants will receive a single dose of LY3002813 or placebo (no drug).
 - Part B in which participants will receive multiple doses of LY3002813 or placebo for 24 weeks.
 - Part C in which participants will receive multiple doses of LY3002813 or placebo for up to 72 weeks.
 Drug will be given as an injection into a vein. For Parts A, B and C, the study will last approximately 72 weeks, not including screening of approximately 42 days. The study is for research purposes only and is not intended to treat any medical condition.

>>NCT00561392
This study evaluated the safety and efficacy of 10 cm^2 rivastigmine patch in patients with Alzheimer Disease (MMSE 10-26). The primary objective was the percentage of patients who stayed on the target size of 10 cm^2 for at least 8 weeks. This proportion was then compared to historical data of the percentage of patients who could reach a rivastigmine capsule target dose of 12 mg and stay on it at least 8 weeks.

>>NCT01733355
[F-18]T807 is being developed as a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for PET imaging of the human brain. [F-18]T807 is being developed as a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for PET imaging of the human brain.

>>NCT01047579
This study is designed to evaluate caregiver preference for Exelon patch (target patch size 10 cm) treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease (MMSE 10-26) who were under cholinesterase inhibitor treatment and experienced adverse event/s in a community setting.

>>NCT01193608
This is a study to evaluate the safety of multiple doses of AAB-003 (PF-05236812) in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease. Patients will receive either AAB-003 (PF-05236812) or placebo. Each patient's participation will last approximately 41 weeks.

>>NCT00094952
The main goal of this project is to use imaging and biomarkers to identify cognitively normal elderly people who are at increased risk for developing mild cognitive impairment (MCI). MCI is the earliest clinically detectable evidence for brain changes due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). The second goal of this project is to describe the inter-relationships among anatomical biomarkers, cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers and cognition measures in those elderly people who develop MCI. The main goal of this project is to use imaging and biomarkers to identify cognitively normal elderly people who are at increased risk for developing mild cognitive impairment (MCI). MCI is the earliest clinically detectable evidence for brain changes due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). The second goal of this project is to describe the inter-relationships among anatomical biomarkers, cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers and cognition measures in those elderly people who develop MCI.

>>NCT02550665
This study evaluates the side effects of dose escalation in the treatment of donepezil 23mg for patients with Alzheimer's disease. Investigators randomly divide participants into three groups according to the dose escalation method; no titration, 15mg of donepezil for a month before escalation to 23mg and alternating of 10mg and 23mg for a month before escalation to 23mg. This study evaluates the side effects of dose escalation in the treatment of donepezil 23mg for patients with Alzheimer's disease. Investigators randomly divide participants into three groups according to the dose escalation method; no titration, 15mg of donepezil for a month before escalation to 23mg and alternating of 10mg and 23mg for a month before escalation to 23mg.

>>NCT02402426
The overall goal of this project is to identify, assess and longitudinally monitor subjects who are interested in participating in brain research. Participants will enroll through the website, BrainHealthRegistry.org and provide informed consent prior to any study activities. The website will collect a variety of information, including participants' overall health, memory complaints, family history of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD), mood status, sleep, diet and exercise-all through self-reported online questionnaires. Participants will also be ask to take online cognitive tests and to return to the website at regular intervals, to complete follow-up questionnaires and neuropsychological assessments. Everyone over the age of 18 is welcome to participate. To join the Brain Health Registry, please visit www.BrainHealthRegistry.org. The overall goal of this project is to identify, assess and longitudinally monitor subjects who are interested in participating in brain research. Participants will enroll through the website, BrainHealthRegistry.org and provide informed consent prior to any study activities. The website will collect a variety of information, including participants' overall health, memory complaints, family history of dementia and Alzheimer's disease (AD), mood status, sleep, diet and exercise-all through self-reported online questionnaires. Participants will also be ask to take online cognitive tests and to return to the website at regular intervals, to complete follow-up questionnaires and neuropsychological assessments. Everyone over the age of 18 is welcome to participate. To join the Brain Health Registry, please visit www.BrainHealthRegistry.org.

>>NCT01800214
The prospect of disease-modifying therapies in the pipeline for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) has intensified efforts to use brain imaging more effectively for diagnosis and monitoring of dementing illnesses. There is also emerging awareness of the destructive interplay between AD and Cerebrovascular Disease (CVD) in our aging population; both disorders share common vascular risk factors and may respond to similar prevention treatments. Brain mapping techniques capitalize on the fact that different neurodegenerative diseases target particular brain areas. Brain shrinkage and stroke disease can be quantified on Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) using computerized analysis.
 This ongoing study applies advanced MR imaging analysis, genetic testing and standardized cognitive and functional assessments done at yearly intervals to measure and monitor longitudinal change in patients with AD, vascular and other neurodegenerative diseases and potentially to measure modifying effects of emerging therapies. Over 1000 patients (Mild Cognitive Impairment or dementia from AD, Vascular, Frontotemporal or Lewy Body Disease) and 125 normal elderly have already been enrolled, with 150 autopsies.
 This study utilizes specialized imaging analysis software packages to reliably quantify brain tissue volumes and small vessel disease, the most common type of CVD. Results from this study will help to improve diagnosis, to customize treatment and to better monitor disease-modifying therapies currently under investigation should they become applicable to everyday practice.

>>NCT01172145
This study examined the effects of modafinil on apathetic symptomatology, performance of activities of daily living (ADLs) and caregiver burden in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00423228
Alzheimer's disease is characterised by memory loss and difficulties with thinking. These problems may be due to a deficiency in a brain chemical called acetylcholine. Acetylcholine helps transmit messages between nerve cells. Acetylcholine is degraded by an enzyme called "acetylcholinesterase". ZT-1 is a new drug derived from a plant extract already used in China for memory disorders, which blocks the action of the enzyme and restores adequate levels of acetylcholine.
 This study will test the safety and efficacy of ZT-1 in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 BRAINz stands for Better Recollection for Alzheimer's patients with the Implant of ZT-1. Alzheimer's disease is characterised by memory loss and difficulties with thinking. These problems may be due to a deficiency in a brain chemical called acetylcholine. Acetylcholine helps transmit messages between nerve cells. Acetylcholine is degraded by an enzyme called "acetylcholinesterase". ZT-1 is a new drug derived from a plant extract already used in China for memory disorders, which blocks the action of the enzyme and restores adequate levels of acetylcholine.
 This study will test the safety and efficacy of ZT-1 in the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 BRAINz stands for Better Recollection for Alzheimer's patients with the Implant of ZT-1.

>>NCT01203384
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of multiple oral doses of CHF5074 in young healthy male volunteers.

>>NCT01729598
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of administration and effects of valproic acid on clusterin expression in cognitively-intact, healthy, elderly subjects. Clusterin mutations have recently been identified as a risk factor for the development of Alzheimer's Disease and changes in clusterin expression are seen in the elderly who develop Alzheimer's disease irrespective of whether they carry these genetic mutations or not. Valproic acid may prevent or reverse these changes.
 Fourteen subjects with normal memory and thinking will participate in this study. Ten of these subjects will receive valproic acid and 4 will receive a "placebo" capsule with no active medicine. Participants will take study medication or placebo for 28 days and be followed for a total 35 days in this trial. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of administration and effects of valproic acid on clusterin expression in cognitively-intact, healthy, elderly subjects. Clusterin mutations have recently been identified as a risk factor for the development of Alzheimer's Disease and changes in clusterin expression are seen in the elderly who develop Alzheimer's disease irrespective of whether they carry these genetic mutations or not. Valproic acid may prevent or reverse these changes.
 Fourteen subjects with normal memory and thinking will participate in this study. Ten of these subjects will receive valproic acid and 4 will receive a "placebo" capsule with no active medicine. Participants will take study medication or placebo for 28 days and be followed for a total 35 days in this trial.

>>NCT00495820
The purpose of the study is to determine the efficacy of methylphenidate over placebo in treating apathy in patients with Alzheimer's dementia. Apathy is one of the earliest and most profound disturbances that occur in Alzheimer's dementia (AD).
 Hypotheses: 1. Methylphenidate (MPH) will improve apathy significantly more than placebo in AD.
 2. Successful treatment of apathy will improve Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADLs) and caregiver burden. The purpose of the study is to determine the efficacy of methylphenidate over placebo in treating apathy in patients with Alzheimer's dementia. Apathy is one of the earliest and most profound disturbances that occur in Alzheimer's dementia (AD).
 Hypotheses: 1. Methylphenidate (MPH) will improve apathy significantly more than placebo in AD.
 2. Successful treatment of apathy will improve Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADLs) and caregiver burden.

>>NCT02440646
In a prospective cohort single-center observational study, 720-1080 chest pain patients ('all-comers' REALITY registry of CTA patients, Ural Institute of Cardiology, Yekaterinburg, Russia; www.cardio-burg.ru) with or without acute coronary syndrome will be enrolled who admitted to the chest pain outpatient center (The Heart Clinics, Yekaterinburg, Russia; www.hclinic.ru) between September 2010 and May 2015 underwent functional testing and computed tomography angiography, and/ or 3D quantitative coronary angiography with or without further percutaneous coronary intervention. Subsequent plaque burden/ % stenosis (adjusted with technical limitations of CTA and 3D QCA), major adverse cardiovascular events (death from cardiac causes, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction or rehospitalization due to unstable or progressive angina) will be judged to be related to either originally treated (culprit) lesions or untreated (non-culprit) lesions. Moreover, the clinical potential of CTA vs 3D QCA in two real-world patient flows of the Chest Pain center will be estimated with the special focus on safety (contrast-induced nephropathy, radiocontrast-induced thyroid dysfunction and radiation dose). The diagnostic accuracy of both CTA and 3D QCA will be analyzed in deceased patients.
 The follow-up period will achieve 3-5 years when retro- and prospectively collected clinical events and imaging outcomes will be determined at the hospital, in 1, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months after the first imaging examination.
 The independent ethics expertise will be provided by the Ural Medical University, Yekaterinburg, Russia (www.usma.ru). The monitoring of the clinical data with imaging as well as further CoreLab expertise (software of Medis) will be provided by De Haar Research Foundation, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. In a prospective cohort single-center observational study, 720-1080 chest pain patients ('all-comers' REALITY registry of CTA patients, Ural Institute of Cardiology, Yekaterinburg, Russia; www.cardio-burg.ru) with or without acute coronary syndrome will be enrolled who admitted to the chest pain outpatient center (The Heart Clinics, Yekaterinburg, Russia; www.hclinic.ru) between September 2010 and May 2015 underwent functional testing and computed tomography angiography, and/ or 3D quantitative coronary angiography with or without further percutaneous coronary intervention. Subsequent plaque burden/ % stenosis (adjusted with technical limitations of CTA and 3D QCA), major adverse cardiovascular events (death from cardiac causes, cardiac arrest, myocardial infarction or rehospitalization due to unstable or progressive angina) will be judged to be related to either originally treated (culprit) lesions or untreated (non-culprit) lesions. Moreover, the clinical potential of CTA vs 3D QCA in two real-world patient flows of the Chest Pain center will be estimated with the special focus on safety (contrast-induced nephropathy, radiocontrast-induced thyroid dysfunction and radiation dose). The diagnostic accuracy of both CTA and 3D QCA will be analyzed in deceased patients.
 The follow-up period will achieve 3-5 years when retro- and prospectively collected clinical events and imaging outcomes will be determined at the hospital, in 1, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months after the first imaging examination.
 The independent ethics expertise will be provided by the Ural Medical University, Yekaterinburg, Russia (www.usma.ru). The monitoring of the clinical data with imaging as well as further CoreLab expertise (software of Medis) will be provided by De Haar Research Foundation, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

>>NCT01001637
Curcumin is shown to impact several different pathways of neuroprotection, however clinical trials have not shown positive results, due to the poor bioavailability of curcumin. This study is designed to determine efficacy and safety of high-bioavailability curcumin formulation (Longvida) in subjects with Alzheimer's disease. Curcumin is shown to impact several different pathways of neuroprotection, however clinical trials have not shown positive results, due to the poor bioavailability of curcumin. This study is designed to determine efficacy and safety of high-bioavailability curcumin formulation (Longvida) in subjects with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01322373
This follow-up study is designed to obtain longitudinal clinical and MEG scan data to gain information on Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression, the stability of healthy control (HC) MEG scan data, to enrich the Orasi database of AD and HC subjects and is intended to extend the capabilities of the Synchronous Neural Interaction (SNI) test, which is under development by the sponsor, Orasi Medical. The current study is intended to extend the database of AD and HC MEG scans and will include patients who previously enrolled and completed Orasi Protocol ADG 08-01. This study will include MEG scans on up to approximately 50 AD subjects and 70 HC subjects. Additionally, AD subjects will complete 3 standard functional tests while HC subjects will complete 2 standard functional tests. ApoE genotyping also will be determined for all subjects. The results generated in this study will be used to improve the accuracy of the SNI test for diagnosing and tracking the progression of AD.

>>NCT00667810
This is a study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of multiple doses of bapineuzumab in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer Disease. Patients will receive either bapineuzumab or placebo. Each patient's participation will last approximately 1.5 years.

>>NCT00934050
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of ELND005 beyond the 18 months of treatment in original randomized and blinded clinical trail ELND005-AD201.

>>NCT01547689
The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and the tolerability of UC-MSC (Human Umbilical Cord-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cell) .This study is also to investigate the efficacy of this treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and the tolerability of UC-MSC (Human Umbilical Cord-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cell) .This study is also to investigate the efficacy of this treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01550549
This study will investigate the performance of physician readers trained to read florbetapir-PET scans using electronic media training. This study will investigate the performance of physician readers trained to read florbetapir-PET scans using electronic media training.

>>NCT01068353
The primary aim of the study is to determine the safety and tolerability of etanercept in subjects with Alzheimer's Disease. The effects of etanercept on cognitive, behavioural, functional and immunological outcomes will be examined as secondary aims.

>>NCT00479349
To assess the safety and tolerability of ascending multiple oral doses of SAM-531, an investigational drug, in healthy Japanese young male and elderly subjects.To provide the pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) profiles of multiple oral doses of SAM-531 in healthy Japanese young male and elderly subjects.

>>NCT01099332
This trial aims to test the hypothesis that 1) a single dose of zinc cysteine in a proprietary gastro-retentive form will produce sustained blood levels of zinc giving a larger bioavailable amount of zinc than an FDA approved preparation of inorganic zinc acetate; and 2) that the zinc cysteine gastro-retentive, sustained-release preparation will be better tolerated with significantly less gastrointestinal side effects than the zinc acetate capsules. The trial also tests the hypothesis that, after 6 months of once daily administration, the zinc cysteine subjects will show reduced serum non-ceruloplasmin copper. Additionally, subjects will perform tests of mental function,including the dementia rating scale, the Mini Mental Status Examination and the ADAS-cognitive performance test aimed at Alzheimer's status assessment. Tests will be administered at baseline, 3 and 6 months and the performance results compared. Care-giver assessments will also be noted. This trial aims to test the hypothesis that 1) a single dose of zinc cysteine in a proprietary gastro-retentive form will produce sustained blood levels of zinc giving a larger bioavailable amount of zinc than an FDA approved preparation of inorganic zinc acetate; and 2) that the zinc cysteine gastro-retentive, sustained-release preparation will be better tolerated with significantly less gastrointestinal side effects than the zinc acetate capsules. The trial also tests the hypothesis that, after 6 months of once daily administration, the zinc cysteine subjects will show reduced serum non-ceruloplasmin copper. Additionally, subjects will perform tests of mental function,including the dementia rating scale, the Mini Mental Status Examination and the ADAS-cognitive performance test aimed at Alzheimer's status assessment. Tests will be administered at baseline, 3 and 6 months and the performance results compared. Care-giver assessments will also be noted.

>>NCT01311492
Exercise Trial for Alzheimer's Disease(EXTRA) is a pilot randomized clinical trial involving a physcial activity program versus a healthy lifestyle program, with one year follow-up in 30 non-disabled, community-dwelling persons, age 65 and older. Exercise Trial for Alzheimer's Disease(EXTRA) is a pilot randomized clinical trial involving a physcial activity program versus a healthy lifestyle program, with one year follow-up in 30 non-disabled, community-dwelling persons, age 65 and older.

>>NCT02061878
The primary objective of this proof of mechanism pilot clinical trial is to determine if the RXR agonist bexarotene acts in humans to alter the CSF levels of apoE and alter the clearance of Amyloid-Beta The primary objective of this proof of mechanism pilot clinical trial is to determine if the RXR agonist bexarotene acts in humans to alter the CSF levels of apoE and alter the clearance of Amyloid-Beta.

>>NCT02343757
The early detection of a preclinical AD or early stage of AD with amyloid imaging could improve the diagnosis and provide knowledge for better therapeutical approach by combining the best of imaging: structural MR sequences and newly FDA-approved biomarker for amyloid PET imaging, all these two techniques with their strengths in one machine.
 Specific Aims and Hypotheses can be summarized as follows:.
 1. To assess image quality and diagnostic performance of 18F-florbetapir (AMYVID) PET/MRI, including direct comparison to corresponding PET/CT images of the same patients.
 2. To evaluate the incremental value of using 18F-florbetapir (AMYVID) in addition to 2-[F-18]-fluoro-2 deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) versus FDG alone. Does quantification of plaque burden correlate with degree of neuronal degeneration as depicted by FDG as well as with clinical severity?.
 3. To determine plaque burden quantitatively with 18F-florbetapir (AMYVID) in PET (form PET/CT and from PET/MR) using novel software developed specifically for these brain application; Computer-Aid Diagnosis for Dementia for amyloid imaging - CAD4D-amyloid.

>>NCT02041728
The investigators are going to test if it is possible to detect early dementia with the digital game "memory". The investigators are going to test 15 healthy people and 15 patients with early dementia.
 The test consists of playing the game "memory" several times. While playing, several parameters are stored.
 The investigators are going to test if any correlation can be found between these parameters and the cognitive state of the person as tested by the Mini-Mental status examination.

>>NCT02288000
The early assessment of new drugs for Alzheimer's disease remains difficult because of the lack of predictive end-point. The use of a battery including different parameters could improve this early development of new drugs. Nevertheless, the interest of such a battery should previously be validated with the yet marketed AD drugs. The early assessment of new drugs for Alzheimer's disease remains difficult because of the lack of predictive end-point. The use of a battery including different parameters could improve this early development of new drugs. Nevertheless, the interest of such a battery should previously be validated with the yet marketed AD drugs.

>>NCT01595646
The study will examine the effects of intranasally administered long-acting insulin detemir on cognition in persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). The rationale for these studies is derived from growing evidence that insulin contributes to multiple brain functions and that insulin dysregulation can contribute to AD pathogenesis. Thus, therapies aimed at restoring normal insulin signaling in the CNS may have beneficial effects on brain function. Intranasal administration of insulin increases insulin signaling in the brain without raising peripheral levels and causing hypoglycemia. Insulin detemir is an insulin analogue that may have better action in brain than other insulin formulations because of its albumin binding properties. The investigators will test the therapeutic effects of intranasally-administered insulin detemir in a study in which participants will receive insulin detemir, regular insulin or placebo over a four month period. The investigators will test the hypothesis that insulin and insulin detemir will both improve memory and daily functioning in persons with AD/aMCI compared with placebo but that insulin detemir will have the greatest effect. The study will examine the effects of intranasally administered long-acting insulin detemir on cognition in persons with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). The rationale for these studies is derived from growing evidence that insulin contributes to multiple brain functions and that insulin dysregulation can contribute to AD pathogenesis. Thus, therapies aimed at restoring normal insulin signaling in the CNS may have beneficial effects on brain function. Intranasal administration of insulin increases insulin signaling in the brain without raising peripheral levels and causing hypoglycemia. Insulin detemir is an insulin analogue that may have better action in brain than other insulin formulations because of its albumin binding properties. The investigators will test the therapeutic effects of intranasally-administered insulin detemir in a study in which participants will receive insulin detemir, regular insulin or placebo over a four month period. The investigators will test the hypothesis that insulin and insulin detemir will both improve memory and daily functioning in persons with AD/aMCI compared with placebo but that insulin detemir will have the greatest effect.

>>NCT00945672
The purpose of this study is to determine whether multiple dose administration is safe and well tolerated in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01780896
The purpose of this study is to evaluate visual and nonvisual topographic memory impairment and its relationship to vestibular function in humans. Topographic memory refers to the ability to remember current and past locations in topographic (navigational) space and to make and/or adjust to spatial transformations using such memories. Performance on each of these topographic memory tasks will be compared to performance on a set of comparable nontopographic memory tasks. Topographic impairments represent some of the earliest cognitive deficits observed in Alzheimer's Disease and the brain areas involved in topographic memory are the first to show degenerative changes.

>>NCT01614886
To evaluate the tolerability, safety and efficacy of 3-step titration versus 1-step titration of Rivastigmine patch in the Japanese population.

>>NCT02788513
The study is designed to compare the effects of BI 425809 compared to placebo in patients with cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02840279
This is a randomized, double-blind (Investigator and subject-blinded) placebo-controlled, multiple, ascending-dose study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of BPN14770 in healthy young and elderly male and female subjects and to provide a preliminary assessment of the cognitive effects of BPN14770 in healthy elderly subjects. This is a randomized, double-blind (Investigator and subject-blinded) placebo-controlled, multiple, ascending-dose study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of BPN14770 in healthy young and elderly male and female subjects and to provide a preliminary assessment of the cognitive effects of BPN14770 in healthy elderly subjects.

>>NCT00824967
Background: Behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are often reported in institutions for the elderly.
 Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of a staff education intervention to manage BPSD in older people with a diagnosis of dementia. Background: Behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are often reported in institutions for the elderly.
 Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of a staff education intervention to manage BPSD in older people with a diagnosis of dementia.

>>NCT02484547
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of monthly doses of aducanumab in slowing cognitive and functional impairment as measured by changes in the Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) score as compared with placebo in participants with early AD. Secondary objectives are to assess the effect of monthly doses of aducanumab as compared with placebo on clinical progression as measured by Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), AD Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (13 items) [ADAS-Cog 13] and AD Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living Inventory (Mild Cognitive Impairment version) [ADCS-ADL-MCI]. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of monthly doses of aducanumab in slowing cognitive and functional impairment as measured by changes in the Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) score as compared with placebo in participants with early AD. Secondary objectives are to assess the effect of monthly doses of aducanumab as compared with placebo on clinical progression as measured by Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), AD Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (13 items) [ADAS-Cog 13] and AD Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living Inventory (Mild Cognitive Impairment version) [ADCS-ADL-MCI].

>>NCT00750282
The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, safety of a single dose of BAY 94-9172 (ZK 6013443) as an investigational medicinal product (IMP) in detecting cerebral protein-plaque (amyloid beta) with positron emission tomography (PET). IMP binds to amyloidal beta protein accumulating in brain tissue already from early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD). IMP is therefore a potential tracer to be used for detecting amyloid plaques. For each subject it is required to visit the study centre during the screening phase, on the PET imaging day and for 1 follow-up visit on the next day. A telephone call for safety follow-up will be performed 7 days after IMP administration. During the screening phase the subject's medical, neurological and surgical history, specific laboratory tests related to AD, MRI of the brain and certain neuro-psychiatric tests will be performed. Clinical safety measures (physical examinations, vital signs, electrocardiogram (ECG) and laboratory tests) will be performed on the PET imaging day before IMP injection and monitored during and after two PET imaging sessions. Clinical safety measures will be performed again on the follow-up visit next day. The results of PET imaging with IMP will be compared between probable AD patients and healthy volunteers (HV). The clinical diagnosis is based on international validated and accepted criteria and established after comprehensive clinical and neuro-psychiatric examinations.

>>NCT01767909
An urgent need exists to find effective treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) that can arrest or reverse the disease at its earliest stages. The emotional and financial burden of AD to patients, family members and society is enormous and is predicted to grow exponentially as the median population age increases. Current FDA-approved therapies are modestly effective at best. This study will examine a novel therapeutic approach using intranasal insulin (INI) that has shown promise in short-term clinical trials. If successful, information gained from the study has the potential to move INI forward rapidly as a therapy for AD. The study will also provide evidence for the mechanisms through which INI may produce benefits by examining key cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers and hippocampal/entorhinal atrophy. These results will have considerable clinical and scientific significance and provide therapeutically-relevant knowledge about insulin's effects on AD pathophysiology. Growing evidence has shown that insulin carries out multiple functions in the brain and that insulin dysregulation may contribute to AD pathogenesis.
 This study will examine the effects of intranasally-administered insulin on cognition, entorhinal cortex and hippocampal atrophy and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) or mild AD. It is hypothesized that after 12 months of treatment with INI compared to placebo, subjects will improve performance on a global measure of cognition, on a memory composite and on daily function. In addition to the examination of CSF biomarkers and hippocampal and entorhinal atrophy, the study aims to examine whether baseline AD biomarker profile, gender or Apolipoprotein epsilon 4 (APOE-4) allele carriage predict treatment response.
 In this study, 240 people with aMCI or AD will be given either INI or placebo for 12 months, following an open-label period of 6 months where all participants will be given active drug. The study uses insulin as a therapeutic agent and intranasal administration focusing on nose to brain transport as a mode of delivery.

>>NCT01020838
To determine the sensitivity and specificity of the visual assessment of tracer uptake in the Florbetaben PET images compared to histological verification of the presence or absence of cerebral -amyloid in the respective histopathologic post mortem specimens as the standard of truth.

>>NCT00154635
A Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo Controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of DCB-AD1 in Patients with Mild to Moderate Alzheimers Disease. Because of the limitation of the sample size we could expect but a positive trend of the efficacy unless the effect size of DCB-AD1 is larger than 0.63. This information will provide us clue if further clinical investigation such as a phase III study should be carried out in an even larger scale. We also should be able to obtain valuable experience on the adverse effect of prolonged (24-week) use of Fo-ti. A Double-blind, Randomized, Placebo Controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of DCB-AD1 in Patients with Mild to Moderate Alzheimers Disease. Because of the limitation of the sample size we could expect but a positive trend of the efficacy unless the effect size of DCB-AD1 is larger than 0.63. This information will provide us clue if further clinical investigation such as a phase III study should be carried out in an even larger scale. We also should be able to obtain valuable experience on the adverse effect of prolonged (24-week) use of Fo-ti.

>>NCT00488670
To investigate the effect of Escitalopram in a large and diverse of dementia patients suffering from depression. To investigate the effect of Escitalopram in a large and diverse of dementia patients suffering from depression.

>>NCT01057030
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of multiple oral daily doses of BMS-708163 in healthy young male subjects.

>>NCT01867346
Background:.
 - The Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA) is a long-term study of human aging. To see how the brain changes with age, researchers will study BLSA participants who are at least 60 years old. In particular, researchers are looking for early markers of possible Alzheimer's disease and other conditions that cause memory loss. To do so, they will give tests of memory and brain function and stay in close contact with participants.
 Objectives:.
 - To study cognitive changes that occur in normal aging and in people who develop memory problems.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals at least 60 years of age who are participating in the BLSA.
 Design:.
 - There are three parts to this study. These study procedures will be done under the usual BLSA guidelines.
 - Participants will take paper and pencil tests. The tests measure skills such as language, attention, memory and problem solving. They will also ask questions about emotions and feelings.
 - Participants will give the name and phone number of a person who knows them well and sees them often. Researchers will ask this person to fill out questionnaires on the effects of aging on the participant. These questions will monitor the participant's memory and ability to function independently.
 - Participants will have regular phone calls between study visits. These calls will help to keep their information up to date.
 - Participants will continue on this study for as long as they are able to participate. Background:.
 - The Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA) is a long-term study of human aging. To see how the brain changes with age, researchers will study BLSA participants who are at least 60 years old. In particular, researchers are looking for early markers of possible Alzheimer's disease and other conditions that cause memory loss. To do so, they will give tests of memory and brain function and stay in close contact with participants.
 Objectives:.
 - To study cognitive changes that occur in normal aging and in people who develop memory problems.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals at least 60 years of age who are participating in the BLSA.
 Design:.
 - There are three parts to this study. These study procedures will be done under the usual BLSA guidelines.
 - Participants will take paper and pencil tests. The tests measure skills such as language, attention, memory and problem solving. They will also ask questions about emotions and feelings.
 - Participants will give the name and phone number of a person who knows them well and sees them often. Researchers will ask this person to fill out questionnaires on the effects of aging on the participant. These questions will monitor the participant's memory and ability to function independently.
 - Participants will have regular phone calls between study visits. These calls will help to keep their information up to date.
 - Participants will continue on this study for as long as they are able to participate.

>>NCT02494531
The goal of this study is to improve the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) at two different stages (MCI and dementia) in illiterate subjects, using FDG- fluorodeoxyglucose - and florbetapir-PET imaging. This study will compare amyloid load and cerebral metabolism dysfunction in literate versus illiterate MCI and AD patients. The goal of this study is to improve the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) at two different stages (MCI and dementia) in illiterate subjects, using FDG- fluorodeoxyglucose - and florbetapir-PET imaging. This study will compare amyloid load and cerebral metabolism dysfunction in literate versus illiterate MCI and AD patients.

>>NCT00702780
This study aimed to test whether escitalopram would slow the brain atrophy in patients with mild to moderate AD over the 52-week period. This study aimed to test whether escitalopram would slow the brain atrophy in patients with mild to moderate AD over the 52-week period.

>>NCT02428387
With the number of Canadians with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) growing, supporting family care partners of persons with ADRD is critical. Family caregivers provide about 90 per cent of in-home care for persons with ADRD and the care is often difficult due to co-morbidities in persons with ADRD. Family caregivers of older persons with ADRD and multiple chronic conditions (MCC) experience significant, complex, distressing transitions such as changes to their environment, roles and relationships, physical and mental health, isolation and taking on new tasks. An online Transition Toolkit (My Tools 4 Care) was developed for family caregivers of persons with ADRD and MCC living at home, to support caregivers through transitions and increase their self-efficacy, hope and quality of life (QOL).
 Through this pragmatic mixed methods randomized controlled trial the investigators expect to find that family caregivers receiving the online My Tools 4 Care Toolkit will show greater improvement in hope, self-efficacy and QOL, at no additional cost from a societal perspective, compared with those in an educational control group. Following baseline data collection 180 participants will be randomly assigned to one of the groups with repeated measures at one, three and six months. With the number of Canadians with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) growing, supporting family care partners of persons with ADRD is critical. Family caregivers provide about 90 per cent of in-home care for persons with ADRD and the care is often difficult due to co-morbidities in persons with ADRD. Family caregivers of older persons with ADRD and multiple chronic conditions (MCC) experience significant, complex, distressing transitions such as changes to their environment, roles and relationships, physical and mental health, isolation and taking on new tasks. An online Transition Toolkit (My Tools 4 Care) was developed for family caregivers of persons with ADRD and MCC living at home, to support caregivers through transitions and increase their self-efficacy, hope and quality of life (QOL).
 Through this pragmatic mixed methods randomized controlled trial the investigators expect to find that family caregivers receiving the online My Tools 4 Care Toolkit will show greater improvement in hope, self-efficacy and QOL, at no additional cost from a societal perspective, compared with those in an educational control group. Following baseline data collection 180 participants will be randomly assigned to one of the groups with repeated measures at one, three and six months.

>>NCT01570322
Study the factors that explain Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL) in patients with Alzheimer disease including:.
 - The influence of the environment (physical and human) on Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL),.
 - The influence of non-drug and drug treatments on Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL),.
 - The influence of formal and informal help mobilized,.
 - The influence of interactions "patient - caregiver" on Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL),.
 - The influence of the ratio necessary cost on available resources on Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL).

>>NCT00018382
This study examines the use of insulin-sensitizing compounds, as therapeutic agents for cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02656498
This is a cross-sectional and longitudinal study to evaluate the clinical utility of [18F]THK-5351 positron emission computed tomography in cognitively healthy volunteers, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative patients.

>>NCT01887535
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of multiple-ascending dose JNJ-54861911 which is currently being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of multiple-ascending dose JNJ-54861911 which is currently being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00545974
The primary objective of the study is to determine whether memantine is effective in slowing the rate of behavioral decline in frontotemporal dementia.
 The secondary objective of the study is to assess the safety and tolerability of long-term treatment with memantine in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) or semantic dementia (SD). To determine whether memantine is effective in slowing the rate of cognitive decline in frontotemporal dementia. To evaluate whether memantine delays or decreases the emergence of parkinsonism in frontotemporal dementia.
 The tertiary objective of the study is to determine whether treatment with memantine affects changes in weight The primary objective of the study is to determine whether memantine is effective in slowing the rate of behavioral decline in frontotemporal dementia.
 The secondary objective of the study is to assess the safety and tolerability of long-term treatment with memantine in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) or semantic dementia (SD). To determine whether memantine is effective in slowing the rate of cognitive decline in frontotemporal dementia. To evaluate whether memantine delays or decreases the emergence of parkinsonism in frontotemporal dementia.
 The tertiary objective of the study is to determine whether treatment with memantine affects changes in weight.

>>NCT01642420
Alzheimers disease (AD) is the most common course of cognitive decline and thereby the course of more than half of all cases of dementia. A proper AD diagnosis is rested on a number of examinations and tests, which combined can make AD diagnosis likely. But no single test or examination can unambiguous determine whether the patient has AD or not. Comparatively no examination or test can with accuracy predict whether a healthy person or a person with only mild cognitive (MCI)impairment in time will evolve AD.
 Quantitative Electroencephalography (qEEG), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, linear CT analyses and Timed Up and Go - Dual Task (TUG-DT) are relatively inexpensive and and widely available diagnostic methods, which have the potential to diagnose AD at an early stage in a reliable accurate way. But they also have the potential to predict which patients diagnosed with MCI have particular risk of developing dementia.
 The purpose of the study is to investigate the relations between qEEG, CSF biomarkers, CT analyses and TUG-DT outcome and clinical features in healthy persons as well as patients with MCI and AD Furthermore to investigate whether qEEG or CSF biomarkers can predict which patients with MCI will in time evolve AD.

>>NCT00106899
The purpose of this study is to examine how brain imaging technology can be used with other tests to measure the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). This information will aid future clinical trials by providing a standard assessment tool to measure the effects of treatments being studied. The purpose of this study is to examine how brain imaging technology can be used with other tests to measure the progression of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). This information will aid future clinical trials by providing a standard assessment tool to measure the effects of treatments being studied.

>>NCT00630851
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Aricept in nursing home patients with severe Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01384344
Cognitive and memory disorders are characterized of Alzheimer disease. In addition, psychologic and behavioural symptoms, called speak neuropsychiatric symptoms, are frequents and play an important role in prognostic and intervention. These symptoms are noticed before the diagnostic of dementia, their prevalence and their intensity increase with the evolution of disease. Apathy, which is characterized by a decrease of motivation, is the most frequent of this behaviour disrupt. Clinically, a decrease or a totally, lack of interest, initiative and blunting emotional are noticed. Fundamentally, apathy is considered as a decrease of cognition and behaviour to "go in goal". Assessment of psychological and behavioural symptoms is realised principally with neuropsychiatric scales. These contribute to obtain particular informations about health of patient allowing by patient and caregiver discussions and impressions of clinician. These scales are simples but loss of subjectivity. An alternative of this method is the use of gerontechnology as actigraphy (system out-patient which records locomotive activity with the help of piezo-electrical sensor fixed on a bracelet) and video recording which is associated to an informatic treatment of signal in order event recognition.
 The aim of study is to realise an objective assessment of activities "go in goal" during experimental sequence which has well-characterized acts, using at the same time an actigraphic record of activity "motive" (system of assessment indirect of apathy fit) and a video records which uses an informatic event recognition system. The assessment will realise with participants controls (n=30) and Alzheimer disease patients with (n=20) or without (n=20) apathy, during well-characterized records. The final aim is to obtain a particular assessment of some disorders behaviours, as apathy, which is principally characterize by a decrease of behaviours "to go in goal".

>>NCT02854033
Since its launch in 2004, the overarching aim of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) has been realized in informing the design of therapeutic trials in AD. ADNI3 continues the previously funded ADNI-1, ADNI-GO and ADNI-2 studies that have been combined public/private collaborations between academia and industry to determine the relationships between the clinical, cognitive, imaging, genetic and biochemical biomarker characteristics of the entire spectrum of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The overall goal of the study is to continue to discover, optimize, standardize and validate clinical trial measures and biomarkers used in AD research. Since its launch in 2004, the overarching aim of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) has been realized in informing the design of therapeutic trials in AD. ADNI3 continues the previously funded ADNI-1, ADNI-GO and ADNI-2 studies that have been combined public/private collaborations between academia and industry to determine the relationships between the clinical, cognitive, imaging, genetic and biochemical biomarker characteristics of the entire spectrum of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The overall goal of the study is to continue to discover, optimize, standardize and validate clinical trial measures and biomarkers used in AD research.

>>NCT00677885
This study will measure the function of a protein called P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is found at the blood-brain barrier, a membrane that normally prevents toxic material from entering the brain. Impaired P-gp function may allow toxins to enter the brain and cause some people to develop certain brain diseases.
 Healthy subjects and people with Alzheimer s disease, Parkinson s disease or frontotemporal dementia who are 35 years of age or older and in overall good health may be eligible for this study.
 Participants undergo the following procedures during three outpatient visits to the NIH Clinical Center:.
 - Medical history, psychological evaluation, physical examination and blood and urine tests, including tests for illegal and addictive drugs.
 - PET scan: This test uses small amounts of a radioactive chemical called a tracer that labels active areas of the brain so the activity can be seen with a special camera. Before starting the scan, a catheter (plastic tube) is placed in a vein in the arm to inject the tracer. The subject lies on the scanner bed, with a special mask fitted to the head and attached to the bed to help keep the head still during the scan so the images obtained are clear. A brief initial scan is done to calibrate the scanner. Then, a radioactive tracer called [(15)O]H(2)O is injected into the catheter and the PET camera takes pictures of blood flow to the brain for about 60 seconds. Next, another tracer, [(11)C]dLop, is injected into the catheter and pictures are taken for about 2 hours to determine how much of this tracer is allowed to enter the brain.
 - Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): This procedure is done within 1 year (before or after) the PET scan. MRI uses a magnetic field and radio waves to produce images of the brain. For this procedure, the patient lies on a table that can slide in and out of the scanner (a tube-like device), wearing earplugs to muffle loud knocking and thumping sounds that occur during the scan. This study will measure the function of a protein called P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is found at the blood-brain barrier, a membrane that normally prevents toxic material from entering the brain. Impaired P-gp function may allow toxins to enter the brain and cause some people to develop certain brain diseases.
 Healthy subjects and people with Alzheimer s disease, Parkinson s disease or frontotemporal dementia who are 35 years of age or older and in overall good health may be eligible for this study.
 Participants undergo the following procedures during three outpatient visits to the NIH Clinical Center:.
 - Medical history, psychological evaluation, physical examination and blood and urine tests, including tests for illegal and addictive drugs.
 - PET scan: This test uses small amounts of a radioactive chemical called a tracer that labels active areas of the brain so the activity can be seen with a special camera. Before starting the scan, a catheter (plastic tube) is placed in a vein in the arm to inject the tracer. The subject lies on the scanner bed, with a special mask fitted to the head and attached to the bed to help keep the head still during the scan so the images obtained are clear. A brief initial scan is done to calibrate the scanner. Then, a radioactive tracer called [(15)O]H(2)O is injected into the catheter and the PET camera takes pictures of blood flow to the brain for about 60 seconds. Next, another tracer, [(11)C]dLop, is injected into the catheter and pictures are taken for about 2 hours to determine how much of this tracer is allowed to enter the brain.
 - Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): This procedure is done within 1 year (before or after) the PET scan. MRI uses a magnetic field and radio waves to produce images of the brain. For this procedure, the patient lies on a table that can slide in and out of the scanner (a tube-like device), wearing earplugs to muffle loud knocking and thumping sounds that occur during the scan.

>>NCT01459016
This study will investigate the volume, function and composition of the brain using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning technology in participants with memory complaints or early signs of Alzheimer's pathology.

>>NCT00249145
The purpose of the study is to compare the safety and efficacy of risperidone (an antipsychotic medication) to that of placebo in the treatment of behavioral disturbances associated with dementia. The purpose of the study is to compare the safety and efficacy of risperidone (an antipsychotic medication) to that of placebo in the treatment of behavioral disturbances associated with dementia.

>>NCT01646723
The objectives of our project are to: 1.) Develop a training program and manual for volunteers to implement evidence-based, non-pharmacological interventions for neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) of dementia in long-term care (LTC) settings; 2.) Recruit and train volunteers using the VALID program and pilot test the volunteer-led program with 20 individuals with Alzheimer's disease and NPS in a LTC facility in Kingston; and, 3.) Evaluate the effects of the VALID program on the symptoms of NPS, patient quality of life, volunteer's experience and LTC staff stress.

>>NCT01832350
The primary objective of this study is to test the hypothesis that Nuedexta (20 - 10) administered orally will reduce Pseudobulbar Affect (PBA) frequency and severity (CNS-Lability Scale and PLACS), with satisfactory safety and high tolerability in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The primary objective will be evaluated using a study endpoint at 1, 13, 26 weeks after initiation of treatment. The secondary objective of this study is to evaluate the benefit of treatment with Nuedexta (20 - 10) on cognition and functionality as demonstrated in the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT), Trail making A and B, Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS) logical memory and delayed recall, Controlled Oral Word Association (COWA), Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR), Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI), Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Activities of Daily Living Inventory (ADCSADL) and the 11-item Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive subscore (ADAS-Cog11).

>>NCT00165659
To evaluate the dose-response efficacy of E2020 (5 mg/day and 10 mg/day) versus placebo and verify superiority of E2020 to placebo in patients with severe AD using CIBIC-plus* and SIB** as the primary efficacy measures. Safety of E2020 will also be evaluated.
 (*for overall evalution of clinical symtoms) (**for cognitive function test).

>>NCT00955422
Background:.
 - Individuals who demonstrate symptoms of Alzheimer s disease, such as progressive memory loss, may be eligible to participate in National Institutes of Health research studies. However, other physical and psychological conditions may produce symptoms similar to those of Alzheimer s disease. To determine whether a patient meets the eligibility criteria to participate in a research protocol, researchers must perform a series of diagnostic tests and procedures.
 - These evaluations are designed to evaluate a participant s general medical condition (for example, blood tests and neurological exams) and to confirm a diagnosis or rule out an individual for consideration. They maximize the safety for participants in studies conducted at the National Institutes of Mental Health.
 Objective:.
 - To determine the eligibility of individuals for active Alzheimer s disease protocols.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals 45 years of age and older who have been having memory problems that have been getting worse with time and have been interfering with everyday life.
 Design:.
 - Required tests and procedures for various research studies may include the following:.
 - Medical history and physical examination, including a psychiatric evaluation.
 - Neuropsychological tests to test memory, mood, concentration and thought processes.
 - Blood and urine tests.
 - Imaging studies (X-rays, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computerized tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET).
 - Additional blood samples and MRI data for future use.
 - After all eligibility assessments are complete, participants may be offered participation in one or more research protocols Background:.
 - Individuals who demonstrate symptoms of Alzheimer s disease, such as progressive memory loss, may be eligible to participate in National Institutes of Health research studies. However, other physical and psychological conditions may produce symptoms similar to those of Alzheimer s disease. To determine whether a patient meets the eligibility criteria to participate in a research protocol, researchers must perform a series of diagnostic tests and procedures.
 - These evaluations are designed to evaluate a participant s general medical condition (for example, blood tests and neurological exams) and to confirm a diagnosis or rule out an individual for consideration. They maximize the safety for participants in studies conducted at the National Institutes of Mental Health.
 Objective:.
 - To determine the eligibility of individuals for active Alzheimer s disease protocols.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals 45 years of age and older who have been having memory problems that have been getting worse with time and have been interfering with everyday life.
 Design:.
 - Required tests and procedures for various research studies may include the following:.
 - Medical history and physical examination, including a psychiatric evaluation.
 - Neuropsychological tests to test memory, mood, concentration and thought processes.
 - Blood and urine tests.
 - Imaging studies (X-rays, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computerized tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET).
 - Additional blood samples and MRI data for future use.
 - After all eligibility assessments are complete, participants may be offered participation in one or more research protocols.

>>NCT01362686
Conduct a comparative effectiveness clinical trial of medication treatment for behavioral symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in a group of real-world memory care clinics with enhanced access to the Indiana Network for Patient Care. Conduct a comparative effectiveness clinical trial of medication treatment for behavioral symptoms of Alzheimer's disease in a group of real-world memory care clinics with enhanced access to the Indiana Network for Patient Care.

>>NCT00556660
The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I AV51, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged healthy controls and Alzheimer's (AD) subjects.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I AV51 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I AV51 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I AV51 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy controls The main objectives of this proposal are as follows:.
 To assess the dynamic uptake and washout of 123-I AV51, a potential imaging biomarker for -amyloid burden in brain, using single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) in similarly aged healthy controls and Alzheimer's (AD) subjects.
 To perform blood metabolite characterization of 123-I AV51 in healthy and AD subjects to determine the metabolic fate and nature of metabolites in assessment of 123-I AV51 as a single photon computed tomography (SPECT) brain imaging agent.
 Evaluate the test/retest reproducibility of 123-I AV51 and SPECT in AD subjects and healthy controls.

>>NCT01435551
From the past research that has been done the investigators have learned that brain cells die & leave a deposit in the brain known as beta-amyloid. Since alzheimer's is a slow acting disease the natural immune system does not respond to this illness so this builds up in the brain. As it builds up it gets into the neurotransmitters in the brain causing more brain cells to die. As these buildups occur dementia sets in due to more of the brain dying & effects normal activity.
 STUDY WAS CANCELLED.
 Hypnotherapy will be used to do the following things:.
 - Increase the immune system.
 - The immune system will begin to clean up the beta-amyloid buildup.
 - That removes damage cells of the brain.
 - Increase more blood flow to the brain.
 - Allows the active brain cells to be trained to carry out daily activities.
 STUDY WAS CANCELLED From the past research that has been done the investigators have learned that brain cells die & leave a deposit in the brain known as beta-amyloid. Since alzheimer's is a slow acting disease the natural immune system does not respond to this illness so this builds up in the brain. As it builds up it gets into the neurotransmitters in the brain causing more brain cells to die. As these buildups occur dementia sets in due to more of the brain dying & effects normal activity.
 STUDY WAS CANCELLED.
 Hypnotherapy will be used to do the following things:.
 - Increase the immune system.
 - The immune system will begin to clean up the beta-amyloid buildup.
 - That removes damage cells of the brain.
 - Increase more blood flow to the brain.
 - Allows the active brain cells to be trained to carry out daily activities.
 STUDY WAS CANCELLED.

>>NCT00743743
Objective: To determine the effects of resveratrol extract given in a 215 mg dose in a daily supplement currently available over the counter, on cognitive and global functioning in patients with mild to moderate AD on standard therapy. Objective: To determine the effects of resveratrol extract given in a 215 mg dose in a daily supplement currently available over the counter, on cognitive and global functioning in patients with mild to moderate AD on standard therapy.

>>NCT02414282
This project will collect quantitative pilot data that will allow the characterization of uptake and binding of 18F-AV-1451 (also known as F 18 T807), a novel tau imaging compound, in individuals with Progressive Posterior Cortical Dysfunction (PPCD). The primary goal is to develop tau imaging technique as an antecedent biomarker of cognitive decline. The investigators propose to obtain preliminary data that will support the possibility of detecting cognitive decline in its earliest stages, before the occurrence of dementia.

>>NCT02351388
This project will investigate the safety and efficacy of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in the treatment of depression among patients with Alzheimer's disease. The investigators aim to ameliorate depressive symptoms among patient with Alzheimer's disease, by anodal stimulation on left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and cathodal suppression on right supraorbital area. Active stimulation will be compare to sham condition in 20 patients (10 in each groups). This project will investigate the safety and efficacy of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in the treatment of depression among patients with Alzheimer's disease. The investigators aim to ameliorate depressive symptoms among patient with Alzheimer's disease, by anodal stimulation on left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and cathodal suppression on right supraorbital area. Active stimulation will be compare to sham condition in 20 patients (10 in each groups).

>>NCT02248636
This study tries to determine if stopping certain medications that are used to treat dementia will cause worsening.
 All of the participants will take pills that look identical and that may contain active drug or an inactive pill (a placebo). Half of the group will receive the same treatment they were taking before the study -- this is called the "sham discontinuation" arm. The other half will receive a reduced dose of their medication and then an inactive pill (placebo) -- this is called the "real discontinuation" arm.
 Participants will be able to return to their previous dose of medication at any time during the study. The percentage of people who return will be measured and compared. Other medical events and factors such as behaviors, thinking and caregiver distress, will be measured and compared between the groups. This study tries to determine if stopping certain medications that are used to treat dementia will cause worsening.
 All of the participants will take pills that look identical and that may contain active drug or an inactive pill (a placebo). Half of the group will receive the same treatment they were taking before the study -- this is called the "sham discontinuation" arm. The other half will receive a reduced dose of their medication and then an inactive pill (placebo) -- this is called the "real discontinuation" arm.
 Participants will be able to return to their previous dose of medication at any time during the study. The percentage of people who return will be measured and compared. Other medical events and factors such as behaviors, thinking and caregiver distress, will be measured and compared between the groups.

>>NCT00322036
This is a multinational, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel group study comparing the safety and efficacy of daily dosing of 800 mg twice daily MPC-7869 to placebo. Study subjects will have the diagnosis of mild dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Subjects may be taking approved medication for Alzheimer's disease provided the dose has been stable for at least 6 months.

>>NCT00867399
The objectives of this study are to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of ABT-126 in elderly subjects.

>>NCT02353949
The study examines subjects where there might be an indication for Amyloid-PET according to the Criteria defined by the Amyloid Imaging Task Force. In these subjects the impact of a Flutemetamol-Positron-Emission-Tomography -Scan (PET) on clinical management and disease course will be studied over 6 months.

>>NCT01357629
This study examines the long term Safety Follow-up of first patients vaccinated with AD02. This study examines the long term Safety Follow-up of first patients vaccinated with AD02.

>>NCT02614131
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the study drug known as LY2599666 in different groups of people - those who are healthy, those who have mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and those with mild-to-moderate AD. The study will measure how much LY2599666 gets into the bloodstream and how long it takes the body to get rid of it. It will also evaluate how LY2599666 affects the body. The study has three parts. Part A will last about 2 months. Parts B and C will each last about 23 weeks. Participants may only enroll in one part.

>>NCT00359944
The purpose of this study is to investigate efficacy and safety of different doses of AC-3933 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01676935
This is a long term extension study to evaluate safety and tolerability of subjects who complete study M10-985 which is evaluating a new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. This is a long term extension study to evaluate safety and tolerability of subjects who complete study M10-985 which is evaluating a new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02350634
The study is designed to examine the relationship between imaging results detected on a 18F-AV-1451 PET scan and pathology found at autopsy within six months of imaging.

>>NCT01962779
Our preliminary data show for in cognitively-normal elderly, that Sleep Disordered Breathing (SDB) is associated with the increase of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) phosphorylated-Tau (P-Tau) and total-Tau (T-Tau), decreases in medial temporal lobe glucose uptake (FDG-PET) and volume (MRI) and progressive memory decline, all of which have been shown to be useful in predicting future dementia in older adults. These findings raise the question as to whether Alzheimer's disease (AD) tissue damage causes SDB in the elderly or alternatively, if SDB acts as a risk factor for AD neurodegeneration. In the proposed study, we will investigate these mechanistic hypotheses in cognitively normal elderly by examining the longitudinal associations between SDB and cognitive decline, novel MR neuroimaging and CSF biomarkers for neurodegeneration; while our secondary goal is to launch a pilot treatment study to aid in interpreting the mechanistic hypotheses and to examine the effects of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) on cognitive decline and neurodegeneration. Our preliminary data show for in cognitively-normal elderly, that Sleep Disordered Breathing (SDB) is associated with the increase of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) phosphorylated-Tau (P-Tau) and total-Tau (T-Tau), decreases in medial temporal lobe glucose uptake (FDG-PET) and volume (MRI) and progressive memory decline, all of which have been shown to be useful in predicting future dementia in older adults. These findings raise the question as to whether Alzheimer's disease (AD) tissue damage causes SDB in the elderly or alternatively, if SDB acts as a risk factor for AD neurodegeneration. In the proposed study, we will investigate these mechanistic hypotheses in cognitively normal elderly by examining the longitudinal associations between SDB and cognitive decline, novel MR neuroimaging and CSF biomarkers for neurodegeneration; while our secondary goal is to launch a pilot treatment study to aid in interpreting the mechanistic hypotheses and to examine the effects of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) on cognitive decline and neurodegeneration.

>>NCT01850238
This first-time-in-man study is mainly designed to assess the safety and tolerability of AADvac1 in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
 AADvac1 is a vaccine directed against pathologically modified Alzheimer tau protein that is the main constituent of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and is intended to be a disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer's disease, i.e. to halt its progress.
 As this study is a Phase I study focused on tolerability and safety, efficacy will be assessed in an exploratory manner. This first-time-in-man study is mainly designed to assess the safety and tolerability of AADvac1 in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
 AADvac1 is a vaccine directed against pathologically modified Alzheimer tau protein that is the main constituent of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and is intended to be a disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer's disease, i.e. to halt its progress.
 As this study is a Phase I study focused on tolerability and safety, efficacy will be assessed in an exploratory manner.

>>NCT01935024
Exercise has been shown to be beneficial for the brain. The investigators would like to test this specifically for those diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. This study will involve 30 randomized patients to take part in the out-patient exercise program and 30 patients to continue with their regular activities over a 6-month period. Once that period is over, half of the 30 patients who participated in the outpatient exercise program will continue in the program and the other half will be randomized to independently continue to exercise. The investigators hypothesize that exercising will benefit the patient by slowing the dementia process, improving behavioral symptoms and decreasing volume loss of certain brain regions. Each person will perform personalized exercise regimens, MR imaging and neuropsychological tests will be used to measure the benefits of exercise. Ultimately, the hope is that the results of this study could be used to facilitate exercise programs for patients. Enrollment is completely voluntary and all personal data obtained will remain confidential.

>>NCT01117948
Study title: A multicentre double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised, parallel-group study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Lornoxicam in patients with mild to moderate probable Alzheimer's Disease.
 Study phase: II.
 Indication: Alzheimers Disease.
 Investigational product, dose schedule and route of administration: Lornoxicam (8 mg) tablets to be taken orally two times daily (BID) for a period of 6 months.
 Reference product, dose, schedule and route of administration: Placebo (8 mg) tablets to be taken orally two times daily (BID) for a period of 6 months. Study title: A multicentre double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised, parallel-group study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Lornoxicam in patients with mild to moderate probable Alzheimer's Disease.
 Study phase: II.
 Indication: Alzheimers Disease.
 Investigational product, dose schedule and route of administration: Lornoxicam (8 mg) tablets to be taken orally two times daily (BID) for a period of 6 months.
 Reference product, dose, schedule and route of administration: Placebo (8 mg) tablets to be taken orally two times daily (BID) for a period of 6 months.

>>NCT00388544
Many persons with dementia exhibit behaviors that caregivers find difficult to manage. The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness of individualized recreational activities for reducing agitation and passivity in persons with dementia. Many persons with dementia exhibit behaviors that caregivers find difficult to manage. The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness of individualized recreational activities for reducing agitation and passivity in persons with dementia.

>>NCT00105547
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the change in cognitive ability and activities of daily living in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as measured by specific evaluations during 18 months of dosing. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the change in cognitive ability and activities of daily living in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) as measured by specific evaluations during 18 months of dosing.

>>NCT02638519
This study involves imaging participants' brains using MRI. The goal is to develop a high-resolution, high-sensitivity imaging tool, hyperpolarized xenon functional brain magnetic resonance imaging, which can provide more sensitive measurement of brain function, facilitating the development of drugs for more successful treatment of Alzheimer's disease. This study involves imaging participants' brains using MRI. The goal is to develop a high-resolution, high-sensitivity imaging tool, hyperpolarized xenon functional brain magnetic resonance imaging, which can provide more sensitive measurement of brain function, facilitating the development of drugs for more successful treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01021644
The primary purpose of this pilot study is to determine whether African Americans with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be enrolled and retained in a 6-month aerobic exercise-training study. The primary purpose of this pilot study is to determine whether African Americans with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be enrolled and retained in a 6-month aerobic exercise-training study.

>>NCT00147693
The objective is to ascertain the potential efficiency of a systematic care programme for caregivers of dementia patients. The research questions are:.
 - What are the costs and benefits of the Systematic Care Programme - Dementia (SCP-Dementia), as compared with usual care?.
 - What are the effects on the quality of life of patients and informal caregivers (spouse, relative), as compared with usual care? The objective is to ascertain the potential efficiency of a systematic care programme for caregivers of dementia patients. The research questions are:.
 - What are the costs and benefits of the Systematic Care Programme - Dementia (SCP-Dementia), as compared with usual care?.
 - What are the effects on the quality of life of patients and informal caregivers (spouse, relative), as compared with usual care?.

>>NCT02686216
Biodistribution, pharmacokinetics and safety of F-18 THK-5351 PET in Alzheimer's disease patients and healthy subjects. Biodistribution, pharmacokinetics and safety of F-18 THK-5351 PET in Alzheimer's disease patients and healthy subjects.

>>NCT01302340
Dementia is a common chronic condition, with predicted increasing prevalence. Nearly all patients with dementia will experience neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS). This causes significant burden for the individual patients and their caregivers. Current treatment has only modest efficacy and important side-effects. Formulations with 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psycho-active compound of cannabis, are currently being registered for spasms in multiple sclerosis and other diseases and may have beneficial effects on NPS. Dementia is a common chronic condition, with predicted increasing prevalence. Nearly all patients with dementia will experience neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS). This causes significant burden for the individual patients and their caregivers. Current treatment has only modest efficacy and important side-effects. Formulations with 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the psycho-active compound of cannabis, are currently being registered for spasms in multiple sclerosis and other diseases and may have beneficial effects on NPS.

>>NCT02222181
In Brazil, patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) receiving free drugs of government. Even having access to, little is known about the effectiveness, safety and adherence of drug therapy in this group of patients. The research aims to promote adherence and develop strategies to address Drug-Related Problems (DRP's) in AD patients elderly of reference centre for the Elderly of Araraquara. The clinical parameters will be assessed at the beginning and after the educational intervention period from April 2014 to April 2015. In Brazil, patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) receiving free drugs of government. Even having access to, little is known about the effectiveness, safety and adherence of drug therapy in this group of patients. The research aims to promote adherence and develop strategies to address Drug-Related Problems (DRP's) in AD patients elderly of reference centre for the Elderly of Araraquara. The clinical parameters will be assessed at the beginning and after the educational intervention period from April 2014 to April 2015.

>>NCT02516046
This study is designed to test the relationship between ante-mortem 18F-AV-1451 Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging and tau neurofibrillary pathology associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), as measured at autopsy.

>>NCT01847586
The purpose of this study is to determine if a novel brain stimulation approach using magnetic stimulation (Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation [TMS]) can improve memory and thinking processes in individuals with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine if a novel brain stimulation approach using magnetic stimulation (Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation [TMS]) can improve memory and thinking processes in individuals with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01955161
To establish efficacy of Lu AE58054 as adjunctive therapy to donepezil for symptomatic treatment of patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT02253043
Purpose: The purpose of this clinical study is to verify the long term effectiveness and safety of a bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) produced by Beijing PINS Medical Co., Ltd. as a treatment option for patients with cognitive, behavioral and functional disability of Alzheimer's disease. Purpose: The purpose of this clinical study is to verify the long term effectiveness and safety of a bilateral deep brain stimulation (DBS) produced by Beijing PINS Medical Co., Ltd. as a treatment option for patients with cognitive, behavioral and functional disability of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01461109
The underlying goal of this study is to assess [18F] CFPyPB PET imaging as a tool to evaluate the activity of the GlyT1 receptors in the brain of Parkinson's Disease (PD) and Alzheimer Disease (AD) research participants. The underlying goal of this study is to assess [18F] CFPyPB PET imaging as a tool to evaluate the activity of the GlyT1 receptors in the brain of Parkinson's Disease (PD) and Alzheimer Disease (AD) research participants.

>>NCT01023425
To compare the clinical efficacy of donepezil between the naive group and the switching group. To compare the clinical efficacy of donepezil between the naive group and the switching group.

>>NCT01195389
The purpose of this study is to determine if low level magnetic fields can help to improve memory in patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's dementia. The purpose of this study is to determine if low level magnetic fields can help to improve memory in patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's dementia.

>>NCT00348192
The purpose of this study is to find out if SB-742457 is a safe treatment and what effects it has on the symptoms of mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease. SB-742457 is a new treatment which is thought to increase the levels of certain chemicals in the brain that are often decreased in patients with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02089555
African Americans are twice as likely to develop Alzheimer's disease as white Americans but few African Americans are enrolled in large Alzheimer's biomarker studies. The current proposal aims to determine the influence of Alzheimer's disease and vascular disease on memory and aging in African Americans through modern biomarkers (spinal fluid, MRI and amyloid imaging) and how these may differ between African Americans and white Americans in preparation for a large multi-center study of aging in African American. African Americans are twice as likely to develop Alzheimer's disease as white Americans but few African Americans are enrolled in large Alzheimer's biomarker studies. The current proposal aims to determine the influence of Alzheimer's disease and vascular disease on memory and aging in African Americans through modern biomarkers (spinal fluid, MRI and amyloid imaging) and how these may differ between African Americans and white Americans in preparation for a large multi-center study of aging in African American.

>>NCT01779310
There are guidelines on the management of AD in China, the evidence adopted in the guidelines are mostly from the trials conducted in other countries due to very limited Chinese data available for local systematic review. Therefore, more local evidence on dementia care is needed for the development of an evidence-based guideline appropriate for people living in China. Meanwhile, the inadequate implementation of the current AD guideline, which results in the low diagnostic rate and high diagnostic leakage, may bring about extra barriers for AD patients to access dementia care service in different areas nationwide. However, there is no data on the clinical pathway about how physicians follow the dementia guideline in the routine practice.
 Therefore, research is needed to learn clinical diagnostic process and treatment patterns of physicians to people with AD in routine practice and help address the low accurate rate of AD clinical diagnosis and low anti-dementia drug prescription in the real world and support guideline development. There are guidelines on the management of AD in China, the evidence adopted in the guidelines are mostly from the trials conducted in other countries due to very limited Chinese data available for local systematic review. Therefore, more local evidence on dementia care is needed for the development of an evidence-based guideline appropriate for people living in China. Meanwhile, the inadequate implementation of the current AD guideline, which results in the low diagnostic rate and high diagnostic leakage, may bring about extra barriers for AD patients to access dementia care service in different areas nationwide. However, there is no data on the clinical pathway about how physicians follow the dementia guideline in the routine practice.
 Therefore, research is needed to learn clinical diagnostic process and treatment patterns of physicians to people with AD in routine practice and help address the low accurate rate of AD clinical diagnosis and low anti-dementia drug prescription in the real world and support guideline development.

>>NCT02119546
The purposes of this study are:.
 1. To investigate whether a 3-month exercise training program would improve cognitive function, motor performance, integrity of brain fiber tracts and cerebral blood flow;.
 2. To investigate the possible neuro-anatomical and neurophysiological mechanisms of exercise training on cognitive function, motor performance, integrity of brain fiber tract and cerebral blood flow in patients with mild cognitive impairment and in those with early Alzheimer's disease;.
 3. To investigate the influence of different apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotypes on the above-mentioned exercise effects.
 The results of this study will provide medical evidence for the effects of exercise training on mild cognitive impairment and on early Alzheimer's disease; and will provide understanding of the mechanisms mediating these effects. More importantly, the results serve as the basis for future larger-scale exercise clinical trials for these two patient populations. The purposes of this study are:.
 1. To investigate whether a 3-month exercise training program would improve cognitive function, motor performance, integrity of brain fiber tracts and cerebral blood flow;.
 2. To investigate the possible neuro-anatomical and neurophysiological mechanisms of exercise training on cognitive function, motor performance, integrity of brain fiber tract and cerebral blood flow in patients with mild cognitive impairment and in those with early Alzheimer's disease;.
 3. To investigate the influence of different apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotypes on the above-mentioned exercise effects.
 The results of this study will provide medical evidence for the effects of exercise training on mild cognitive impairment and on early Alzheimer's disease; and will provide understanding of the mechanisms mediating these effects. More importantly, the results serve as the basis for future larger-scale exercise clinical trials for these two patient populations.

>>NCT01860625
Study of the Safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics with single dose of donepezil patch in healthy male subjects.

>>NCT01416012
Interactive games (virtual reality) have recently been the center of interest and scientific discussion in the field of cognitive and functional rehabilitation. From their entertaining and contextual aspects, off-the-shelf video games are potentially interesting tools as adjunct to the patient care, especially for maintaining instrumental activities of daily living (IADL) autonomy.
 Disease and physical inactivity worsen the patient's ability in the IADLs, thus reducing health related quality of life (HRQL). This decrease in cognitive and functional abilities can be slowed down using adapted rehabilitation program.
 However, there is no randomized controlled study comparing usual physical therapy to virtual reality gaming consoles such as the Nintendo Wii or the Xbox 360 Kinect.
 Off-the-shelf gaming consoles offer a large range of games where cognitive and functional abilities from geriatric patients could be stimulated and consequently HRQL improved.
 However, a better knowledge of the potential cognitive and functional improvement processes from virtual reality rehabilitation in institutional routine is needed to enhance the quality and the range of the available care in old adults.
 This study will not only be a validation platform of virtual reality as stand alone rehabilitation process but also will assess the cost effectiveness of off-the-shelf gaming consoles in HRQL improvement of old adults.
 The investigators will compare the efficacy of two off-the-shelf gaming consoles in HRQL changes of patients with Alzheimer disease and related disorders.
 Method.
 This study is a randomized controlled trial that comprises two study phases :.
 Phase one; comparing three parallel groups where therapists and assessors will be kept blind of study objectives and Phase two, the investigators will take the most cost-effective gaming console from phase one (Nintendo Wii or Xbox 360 Kinect) and the investigators will use it as an adjunct to physical therapy compared to physical therapy alone, with respect to the same amount of rehabilitation time.
 The interventions are of 120min/week for 6 weeks and a follow-up at 4 weeks after intervention.
 Patients will be randomized in either Xbox 360 Kinect group - a Nintendo Wii group - or physical therapy as the 'gold' standard condition.
 All groups will receive the same amount of rehabilitation time. Power and sample calculation for phase two will be based on phase one results.

>>NCT01734395
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that the change of attention measure is correlated with the changes of caregiver's burden after treatment with galantamine. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that the change of attention measure is correlated with the changes of caregiver's burden after treatment with galantamine.

>>NCT02685787
This randomized trial evaluates the efficacy of counselling for reducing anxiety and depression in caregivers of patients with dementia. Half of the participants will receive six hours providing counselling and psycho-social support to caregivers along with a specific telephone support service - Ad Hoc Telephone Counselling whereas the remaining participants will receive six hours providing general information about Alzheimer Disease. This randomized trial evaluates the efficacy of counselling for reducing anxiety and depression in caregivers of patients with dementia. Half of the participants will receive six hours providing counselling and psycho-social support to caregivers along with a specific telephone support service - Ad Hoc Telephone Counselling whereas the remaining participants will receive six hours providing general information about Alzheimer Disease.

>>NCT01766336
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of ELND005 treatment with up to 36 weeks exposure, in Moderate to Severe AD patients with agitation and aggression.

>>NCT01762618
A randomized controlled trial designed to test the effectiveness of a psychological intervention based on group therapy for the caregivers of Alzheimer's disease patients. The intervention consists of 14 sessions of a cognitive-behavioral psychological group therapy. This study aims to demonstrate that Alzheimer's patients' caregivers can benefit from group counseling, with an improvement in mood state, quality of life, perceived burden and a decrease in anxiety and depression. Two evaluations will be done: before the therapy sessions (basal) and when intervention is finished (final). A randomized controlled trial designed to test the effectiveness of a psychological intervention based on group therapy for the caregivers of Alzheimer's disease patients. The intervention consists of 14 sessions of a cognitive-behavioral psychological group therapy. This study aims to demonstrate that Alzheimer's patients' caregivers can benefit from group counseling, with an improvement in mood state, quality of life, perceived burden and a decrease in anxiety and depression. Two evaluations will be done: before the therapy sessions (basal) and when intervention is finished (final).

>>NCT00267124
The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of exercise and cardiorespiratory fitness on age-related brain changes. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of exercise and cardiorespiratory fitness on age-related brain changes.

>>NCT00177489
The primary goal of this study is to test a single multi-component intervention among family caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's disease or related disorders. The overall objectives of study are to 1) identify and reduce modifiable risk factors among diverse family caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's Disease or a related disorder, 2) enhance the quality of care of the care recipients and 3) enhance the well-being of the caregivers. The primary goal of this study is to test a single multi-component intervention among family caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's disease or related disorders. The overall objectives of study are to 1) identify and reduce modifiable risk factors among diverse family caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's Disease or a related disorder, 2) enhance the quality of care of the care recipients and 3) enhance the well-being of the caregivers.

>>NCT01314950
The purpose of this study is to conduct a two-year randomized, controlled clinical trial to improve functioning among older adults with Alzheimer's disease by comparing a control group receiving best practices primary care with an intervention group receiving best practice primary care plus a home-based occupational therapy intervention. The purpose of this study is to conduct a two-year randomized, controlled clinical trial to improve functioning among older adults with Alzheimer's disease by comparing a control group receiving best practices primary care with an intervention group receiving best practice primary care plus a home-based occupational therapy intervention.

>>NCT02021682
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia and currently has no disease modifying treatments or simple accurate diagnostic tests. The goal of this project is to study how amyloid-beta (a protein thought to cause AD) is made, transported and cleared in the human body. Better understanding of these processes may lead to improved understanding of AD, earlier diagnosis and a way to evaluate treatment. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia and currently has no disease modifying treatments or simple accurate diagnostic tests. The goal of this project is to study how amyloid-beta (a protein thought to cause AD) is made, transported and cleared in the human body. Better understanding of these processes may lead to improved understanding of AD, earlier diagnosis and a way to evaluate treatment.

>>NCT00480467
To assess the safety and tolerability of ascending single oral doses of SAM-315, an investigational drug, in healthy Japanese male subjects.To obtain preliminary pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) profiles of SAM-315 in healthy Japanese male subjects.

>>NCT00142805
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and effectiveness of Ketasyn administered once a day for ninety days in subjects with mild to moderate, probable Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability and effectiveness of Ketasyn administered once a day for ninety days in subjects with mild to moderate, probable Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01979432
The main objective of this study is to look for the interest forecast of the IPS as infra-clinical cardiovascular marker in the prediction of a change of the cognitive functions (MCI) at the elderly of 70 and more years old without clinical cardiovascular pathology.

>>NCT01825577
Falls in the elderly are a very common and serious health problem with devastating consequences. Those with dementia are 5 times more likely to experience falls than older people without significant cognitive impairment. Despite a growing awareness and the use of available treatments, the number of falls and fall related injuries continue to increase. It is important to develop more effective treatments to help reduce the number of falls and prevent injury. The assessments used in this study determine fall risk which predicts the likelihood of falls in the future.
 This study will evaluate the possible role of Methylphenidate, Ritalin, in preventing falls and improving symptoms of apathy or indifference. Methylphenidate is FDA approved for the treatment of ADHD but is not currently approved by the FDA for preventing falls or improving apathy(lack of interest) in the elderly. The methylphenidate used in this study will be absorbed through the skin by wearing a small patch near the hip area.
 The specific primary aim of this open label study is to determine if use of transdermal Methylphenidate (t-MPH) causes a reduction in fall risk in patients with dementia.
 The hypotheses to be tested is that after receiving t-MPH for 4 weeks, subjects will show improvement in gait and mobility assessment scores when compared to gait and mobility scores at screening. Falls in the elderly are a very common and serious health problem with devastating consequences. Those with dementia are 5 times more likely to experience falls than older people without significant cognitive impairment. Despite a growing awareness and the use of available treatments, the number of falls and fall related injuries continue to increase. It is important to develop more effective treatments to help reduce the number of falls and prevent injury. The assessments used in this study determine fall risk which predicts the likelihood of falls in the future.
 This study will evaluate the possible role of Methylphenidate, Ritalin, in preventing falls and improving symptoms of apathy or indifference. Methylphenidate is FDA approved for the treatment of ADHD but is not currently approved by the FDA for preventing falls or improving apathy(lack of interest) in the elderly. The methylphenidate used in this study will be absorbed through the skin by wearing a small patch near the hip area.
 The specific primary aim of this open label study is to determine if use of transdermal Methylphenidate (t-MPH) causes a reduction in fall risk in patients with dementia.
 The hypotheses to be tested is that after receiving t-MPH for 4 weeks, subjects will show improvement in gait and mobility assessment scores when compared to gait and mobility scores at screening.

>>NCT00035204
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the relative effects of galantamine compared to donepezil (both cholinesteraste inhibitors), on sleep, attention and gastrointestinal tolerance in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the relative effects of galantamine compared to donepezil (both cholinesteraste inhibitors), on sleep, attention and gastrointestinal tolerance in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00018473
This study will create Alzheimer 's disease risk profiles for defined combinations of genotypes and environmental exposures. This study will carry out a molecular epidemiologic study to identify genetic and environmental risks factors using state of the art techniques. The following will be done during the course of this study 1) Recruit both Alzheimer's patients and cognitively normal aged veterans. 2) Evaluate gene interaction in Alzheimer's disease. 3) Evaluate gene-environment interactions on the risk of Alzheimer's disease. These procedures should initially address the question as to whether certain genes either independently or synergistically modify the risk of Alzheimer's disease. This study will also determine whether certain environmental factors (smoking, alcohol consumption etc.) can modify the risk of AD and whether this effect is dependent on certain genetic backgrounds. This study will provide information that will be useful in designing therapies, develop risk factor profiles to be further tested in future studies, designating patients for specific therapies based on genetic factors and providing data and genetic material for future studies. This study will also provide a cohort of older and well characterized cognitively normal veterans for prospective genetic epidemiological studies on aging.

>>NCT00297362
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of galantamine hydrobromide in patients with Alzheimer's disease who have not received or have not responded to treatment with medication similar to galantamine hydrobromide. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of galantamine hydrobromide in patients with Alzheimer's disease who have not received or have not responded to treatment with medication similar to galantamine hydrobromide.

>>NCT02080364
This is a study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of azeliragon in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease. Patients will receive either azeliragon or placebo with a patient's participation lasting approximately 18 months.

>>NCT02506374
This non-intervention qualitative study will use focus groups to assess the feasibility and acceptability of a proposed intervention for a future study. The focus group will discuss a potential biobehavioral family self-management intervention designed to improve sleep in persons with Alzheimer's disease (PAD) and their caregivers (CG). This non-intervention qualitative study will use focus groups to assess the feasibility and acceptability of a proposed intervention for a future study. The focus group will discuss a potential biobehavioral family self-management intervention designed to improve sleep in persons with Alzheimer's disease (PAD) and their caregivers (CG).

>>NCT02006654
To establish efficacy of Lu AE58054 as adjunctive therapy to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) for symptomatic treatment of patients with mild-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01864655
Alzheimer's disease is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder, for which there is currently no effective treatment to slow or halt progression. Beta amyloid peptide accumulates in the brains of those with Alzheimer's and is thought to play a major role in triggering the dementia. The investigators recently characterized a molecular pathway by which -amyloid damages neurons and showed that the protein termed Fyn kinase is crucial. Our data suggest that blocking Fyn will have a significant therapeutic benefit for Alzheimer's. Astra Zeneca has developed a blocker of Fyn and related kinases (AZD0530) for the treatment of cancer. Chronic AZD0530 administration is well tolerated in humans and the investigators propose to test its potential as a novel Alzheimer's disease modifying therapy. This study will assess the safety and tolerability of AZD0530 in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01487395
The early assessment of new drugs for Alzheimer's disease remains difficult because of the lack of predictive end-point. The use of a battery including different parameters could improve this early development of new drugs. Nevertheless, the interest of such a battery should previously be validated with the yet marketed AD drugs The early assessment of new drugs for Alzheimer's disease remains difficult because of the lack of predictive end-point. The use of a battery including different parameters could improve this early development of new drugs. Nevertheless, the interest of such a battery should previously be validated with the yet marketed AD drugs.

>>NCT01931566
The purpose of this study is to qualify the biomarker risk algorithm for prognosis of the risk of developing Mild Cognitive Impairment due to Alzheimer's Disease (MCI-AD) and also to evaluate the efficacy of pioglitazone compared with placebo to delay the onset of MCI-AD in cognitively-normal participants who are at high-risk for developing MCI within 5 years. The purpose of this study is to qualify the biomarker risk algorithm for prognosis of the risk of developing Mild Cognitive Impairment due to Alzheimer's Disease (MCI-AD) and also to evaluate the efficacy of pioglitazone compared with placebo to delay the onset of MCI-AD in cognitively-normal participants who are at high-risk for developing MCI within 5 years.

>>NCT02778971
The main purpose of this study is to explore the impact of an amyloid positron emission tomography and computed tomography (PET/CT) scan on physician diagnosis and management, including drug management and care practices, for patients with a diagnosis of cognitive impairment. This study also intends to capture specific patient-reported outcomes related to patient burden, confidence and satisfaction.
 The hypothesis is that to aid early diagnosis, individuals with a diagnostically uncertain etiology for their dementia will benefit from knowledge of amyloid plaque burden status, through an alteration of patient diagnosis and management, which will lead to significant changes in patient and care partner reported outcomes. The main purpose of this study is to explore the impact of an amyloid positron emission tomography and computed tomography (PET/CT) scan on physician diagnosis and management, including drug management and care practices, for patients with a diagnosis of cognitive impairment. This study also intends to capture specific patient-reported outcomes related to patient burden, confidence and satisfaction.
 The hypothesis is that to aid early diagnosis, individuals with a diagnostically uncertain etiology for their dementia will benefit from knowledge of amyloid plaque burden status, through an alteration of patient diagnosis and management, which will lead to significant changes in patient and care partner reported outcomes.

>>NCT02291783
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in young and elderly healthy volunteers of HTL9936, a selective M1 receptor agonist intended for the treatment of cognitive disorders.

>>NCT00704782
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of Dimebon in combination with donepezil (Aricept) in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00951197
Capturing the earliest stages of Dementia especially Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a great challenge. Until now the NINCDS-ADRDA and the DSM criteria for AD were largely used as diagnostic standards in research. However, the research on AD progresses and some biomarkers have been recently suggested to improve the diagnostic criteria of AD, such as cerebrospinal fluid markers, neuroimaging with Positon Emission Tomography (PET) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI).

>>NCT01188070
More and more family members are providing care to their loved ones with prolonged and progressive illnesses. Chronic intense caregiving represents a situation of chronic stress, which takes a toll on one's mental and physical health including an increased risk for the development or worsening of heart disease. Identification of effective self-care interventions for family caregivers is warranted to improve their emotional wellbeing and minimize the harmful effects of chronic stress on the heart. This Program Project Grant aims to promote health and reduce cardiovascular risk in family caregivers (FCG) of persons with chronic illness. In two studies the investigators will test two interventions, psycho-education(ED) and physical exercise(EX), individually and in combination. The first study will target FCG of African American dementia patients; the second will focus on FCG of heart failure patients. Parallel designs, interventions and measures will create synergy as will integration of all data management and analyses within a Bio-behavioral Science and Measures Core. This Core will also provide high level guidance and interpretation of model testing resulting from analysis of the common data set. The combined de-identified data set will allow for elucidating the biological mechanisms of stress-induced cardiovascular risk, further developing the model and stimulating future research, while the shared core support will provide substantial efficiency; neither could be achieved outside of a Program Project approach. These collective efforts will generate important data whereby future care can significantly enhance the lives of FCG and minimize their risk of cardiovascular disease, the number one cause of disability and death in the United States.
 We hypothesize that FCGs who receive the combined PSYCHED+EX intervention will have better psychological functioning (lower levels of depressive symptoms, anxiety and caregiver burden and higher levels of flourishing), behavioral outcomes (improved sleep quality and greater physical function), cardiovascular risk measures (improved resting heart rate, blood pressure, heart rate recovery, oxygen consumption, lipids, glucose and inflammatory markers), neuroendocrine function (salivary cortisol) and overall health outcomes (improved function, muscle strength and endurance) compared to psycho-education and usual care-attention control from baseline to six months later mediated by improvements in process outcomes (lower perceived stress and higher self-efficacy).

>>NCT01745198
In a retrospective analysis of data from 1100 patients, disease-delaying effects of Cerefolin/CerefolinNAC were examined in terms of cognition. The purpose of the current study is to expand the retrospective study dataset by prospectively collecting additional biomarker and imaging data. In a retrospective analysis of data from 1100 patients, disease-delaying effects of Cerefolin/CerefolinNAC were examined in terms of cognition. The purpose of the current study is to expand the retrospective study dataset by prospectively collecting additional biomarker and imaging data.

>>NCT00239746
The purpose of this study is to test the effect of ibuprofen on the levels of a number of different proteins (called biomarkers) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood and urine to see whether ibuprofen can influence certain biomarkers associated with the progression of Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study is to test the effect of ibuprofen on the levels of a number of different proteins (called biomarkers) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), blood and urine to see whether ibuprofen can influence certain biomarkers associated with the progression of Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00912288
No Dimebon clinical data exist yet in patients with disease that has advanced to the moderate-to-severe stage. Therefore, this study evaluates the safety and efficacy of Dimebon in patients with moderate-to-severe AD who are receiving existing background therapy with memantine. No Dimebon clinical data exist yet in patients with disease that has advanced to the moderate-to-severe stage. Therefore, this study evaluates the safety and efficacy of Dimebon in patients with moderate-to-severe AD who are receiving existing background therapy with memantine.

>>NCT02107599
This study will evaluate whether the addition of quantitation as an adjunct to visual interpretations significantly improves the accuracy of Amyvid scan interpretation.

>>NCT01385033
The purpose of this study is to evaluate radiolabeled [18F]MK-3328 as a PET tracer for estimating the regional distribution and extent of amyloid plaques in participants suffering from amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and Alzheimer's Disease (AD) versus healthy young and elderly participants. The study hypotheses will test whether [18F]MK-3328 can discriminate between AD participants and cognitively normal elderly control participants as measured by brain regional tracer uptake.

>>NCT01669876
To explore whether dietary supplementation with a version of Anatabloc(R) exerts an effect on blood levels of amyloid beta (A) or impacts global or functional measures of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in subjects with mild to moderate AD.

>>NCT02097056
This is a multi-center, open-label, single-arm, prospective, phase IV trial, evaluating safety and efficacy of donepezil hydrochloride in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease. This is a multi-center, open-label, single-arm, prospective, phase IV trial, evaluating safety and efficacy of donepezil hydrochloride in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00088387
This study will examine the effect of the drugs lithium and divalproex (Depakote) on tau proteins, a type of protein in the brain and spinal fluid that are altered in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Both drugs are approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat mood disorders and both have been shown in animal studies to decrease the amount of altered tau protein. This study will determine whether lithium alone or in combination with divalproex reduces the altered tau protein in the spinal fluid of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 Patients with Alzheimer's disease who are between 40 and 90 years of age may be eligible for this study. Candidates are screened with a medical history and physical examination, neurologic and neuropsychological evaluation, blood and urine tests, electrocardiogram (EKG), and, if needed, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain.
 Participants undergo the following tests and procedures:.
 - Drug treatment: Patients take study drugs for 6 weeks.
 - Weekly clinic visits: Patients come to the clinic once a week for a physical examination, blood and urine tests, a review of drug side effects and to receive the next week's supply of medications.
 - Lumbar puncture (spinal tap): Patients have a lumbar puncture at study weeks 2, 4 and 6 to measure various brain chemicals and tau proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which bathes the brain and spinal cord. For this test, a local anesthetic is given and a needle is inserted in the space between the bones in the lower back where the CSF circulates below the spinal cord. A small amount of fluid is collected through the needle.
 - Follow-up visit: Two weeks after completing the study medication, patients return to the clinic for a final evaluation, including a physical examination and blood and urine tests. This study will examine the effect of the drugs lithium and divalproex (Depakote) on tau proteins, a type of protein in the brain and spinal fluid that are altered in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Both drugs are approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat mood disorders and both have been shown in animal studies to decrease the amount of altered tau protein. This study will determine whether lithium alone or in combination with divalproex reduces the altered tau protein in the spinal fluid of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
 Patients with Alzheimer's disease who are between 40 and 90 years of age may be eligible for this study. Candidates are screened with a medical history and physical examination, neurologic and neuropsychological evaluation, blood and urine tests, electrocardiogram (EKG), and, if needed, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain.
 Participants undergo the following tests and procedures:.
 - Drug treatment: Patients take study drugs for 6 weeks.
 - Weekly clinic visits: Patients come to the clinic once a week for a physical examination, blood and urine tests, a review of drug side effects and to receive the next week's supply of medications.
 - Lumbar puncture (spinal tap): Patients have a lumbar puncture at study weeks 2, 4 and 6 to measure various brain chemicals and tau proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which bathes the brain and spinal cord. For this test, a local anesthetic is given and a needle is inserted in the space between the bones in the lower back where the CSF circulates below the spinal cord. A small amount of fluid is collected through the needle.
 - Follow-up visit: Two weeks after completing the study medication, patients return to the clinic for a final evaluation, including a physical examination and blood and urine tests.

>>NCT00870311
This study investigates the effects of Lithium treatment on signal transduction pathways, gene expression and brain neurochemistry and structure in patients with Bipolar disorder. It is hypothesized that specific changes in these markers will correlate with lithium treatment responsiveness. This study investigates the effects of Lithium treatment on signal transduction pathways, gene expression and brain neurochemistry and structure in patients with Bipolar disorder. It is hypothesized that specific changes in these markers will correlate with lithium treatment responsiveness.

>>NCT01696591
The purpose of the study is to determine the long-term safety and exploratory efficacy of NEUROSTEM-AD, administered via an open brain surgery to subjects with dementia of the Alzheimer's type, who were eligible for and enrolled in the earlier part of the phase I. Aside from the subjects who completed the earlier part of the Phase I, 3 additional subjects with comparable demographics and disease characteristics as the treatment group will be enrolled into a control group, followed-up for 3 months and compared for various disease progression indicators with the treatment group.
 The hypothesis is that NEUROSTEM-AD is safe and effective in the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type. The purpose of the study is to determine the long-term safety and exploratory efficacy of NEUROSTEM-AD, administered via an open brain surgery to subjects with dementia of the Alzheimer's type, who were eligible for and enrolled in the earlier part of the phase I. Aside from the subjects who completed the earlier part of the Phase I, 3 additional subjects with comparable demographics and disease characteristics as the treatment group will be enrolled into a control group, followed-up for 3 months and compared for various disease progression indicators with the treatment group.
 The hypothesis is that NEUROSTEM-AD is safe and effective in the treatment of dementia of the Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT01880151
Recent diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD) recognize an extended spectrum of AD stages as part of the disease, including a preclinical stage. This underscores the importance of early prognosis of AD when it is still possible to influence the course of the disorder. The investigators propose a comprehensive project which will target the data-driven modeling of the disease development. This goal will be achieved by creating and validating a battery of new sensitive biomarkers for clinical evaluation and prediction of AD in individuals. The AD-related brain changes will be assessed by noninvasive functional EEG measured during an episodic memory task in subjects at different stages of AD, as well as in healthy controls. The novel functional biomarkers will be extracted using a rigorous multistage selection procedure involving advanced methods for feature extraction, as well as statistics and classification for optimal selection. The ESTIMATE project will serve as a first step in an extensive array of research procedures which will enable the early clinical identification of Alzheimer's disease in elderly individuals who could then take advantage of preventive pharmaceutical therapies.

>>NCT00549601
This study used two doses of rivastigmine transdermal patch (5 cm^2, 10 cm^2) to establish the feasibility of 2 switch schedules (with transdermal patch one-step dose titration or without dose titration) from rivastigmine capsules (3 mg bid (bis in die, twice a day), 4.5 mg bid, 6 mg bid) to rivastigmine transdermal patch and to assess safety, tolerability, convenience and caregivers preferences of rivastigmine transdermal patch versus capsules.

>>NCT01564706
This study will determine how florbetapir F 18 (18F-AV-45) radioactivity is distributed throughout the body.

>>NCT00432081
The purpose of this study is determine whether indomethacin is able to retard disease progression in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is determine whether indomethacin is able to retard disease progression in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00684710
This study will provide an initial assessment of the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (PK) of PAZ-417 after administration of ascending single oral doses to healthy young Japanese male and healthy elderly Japanese male subjects.

>>NCT01837641
The study will evaluate the safety of LY3002813 by looking at adverse events. The study will also look at the effect the body has on LY3002813. Study participants will be healthy or will have mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) or mild to moderate AD.
 There will be seven groups of study participants. Five groups will receive a single dose of LY3002813 or placebo (no drug), followed by up to 4 multiple doses of LY3002813 or placebo given as an injection into a vein. Approximately 12 weeks will pass between the single dose and the first multiple dose. One group of participants will receive a single dose of LY3002813 given as an injection under the skin. One group of participants will receive a single dose of LY3002813 given as an injection into a vein.

>>NCT01680588
This is a phase 2, open-label, multiple-center, non-randomized single dose study to assess the safety and efficacy of [18F]NAV4694 PET imaging in detecting beta-amyloid plaque in the brain in subjects with probable AD compared with healthy volunteers.

>>NCT01715350
The investigators intend to perform exploratory evaluation of the treatment effectiveness and safety of PM012 Tablet of PuriMED Co., Ltd. at 2 doses in Korean patients with mild to moderate dementia of Alzheimer's type. To achieve this, this study aims to compare each dose with placebo control for the efficacy and safety to explore the clinically optimal dose of PM012 Tablet for therapeutic confirmatory (phase 3) clinical studies. The investigators intend to perform exploratory evaluation of the treatment effectiveness and safety of PM012 Tablet of PuriMED Co., Ltd. at 2 doses in Korean patients with mild to moderate dementia of Alzheimer's type. To achieve this, this study aims to compare each dose with placebo control for the efficacy and safety to explore the clinically optimal dose of PM012 Tablet for therapeutic confirmatory (phase 3) clinical studies.

>>NCT01434940
The global aim of our study is to validate eye movement recording as an early differential diagnostic tool, in order to discriminate as early as possible between neurodegenerative dementias of Alzheimer type and depressive pseudodementias (DPD). The investigators want to put forward idiosyncratic oculomotor characteristics of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and DPD respectively. Eye movements are sensitive markers of neurological diseases and can be used in a variety of clinical neurological syndromes.
 This study compares 3 groups of 98 patients: patients suffering of AD and DPD and healthy persons. The patients AD will be recruited in the Memory Centre of Resources and Research of Besanon and patients DPD will be selected in the psychiatric department of the University Hospital of Besanon. The control participants will be recruited from the entourage of researchers and patients. The selection of participants in the 3 different groups is based on clinical examinations in psychiatry and neurology and neuropsychological assessments. After giving informed consent, patients will be evaluated by a psychiatrist and a neuropsychologist. The complete assessment takes 150 minutes.
 After having set up patients, eye movements will be recorded using video-oculography techniques. The following tasks are performed: the basic dynamic eye movements (latency, hypometric and hypermetric saccades, reaction time, saccade speed, accuracy, pupil diameter) will be evaluated by the pro-saccade, anti-saccade and predictive saccade tasks. The emotional connotation tasks will be assessed by scan of images pair with emotional connotation and portrait analysis. The assessment takes 30 minutes.
 This study will include 3 groups:.
 - an Alzheimer group;.
 - a depressed group;.
 - a control group with healthy persons. The population of this study will be comprised of patients over age 60 with a visual acuity over 9 - 10, not diagnosed with eye disease and not neuropsychological sequelae that could disrupt the functioning oculomotor.
 These people will be recruited on a voluntary basis, after notification and consent in the research center, the Psychiatry Clinical Department of the University Hospital of Besanon. This study was conducted over a period of 36 months.

>>NCT01859767
This is a Phase 1, single center, open-label, non-randomized, clinical study in probable AD patients and HVs to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of a single dose of MNI-672. The underlying goal of this study is to assess MNI-672 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect  amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and young healthy male subjects. All study procedures will be conducted at Molecular NeuroImaging (MNI) in New Haven, CT. Approximately 3 patients with AD and 3 young male HVs will be recruited to participate in this study. HVs will be screened to ensure that there is no evidence of cognitive decline or significant neurological deficit.
 All eligible subjects will be required to visit the study center on at least 2 occasions:.
 1. for one or more screening visits which should include a history and physical examination, laboratory and extensive neuro-psychological testing and MRI brain scanning. AD subjects will also undergo Amyvid PET imaging as part of the Screening Visit.
 2. on one day for baseline examinations and MNI-672 administration and subsequent SPECT scanning- followed by safety measures This is a Phase 1, single center, open-label, non-randomized, clinical study in probable AD patients and HVs to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of a single dose of MNI-672. The underlying goal of this study is to assess MNI-672 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect  amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and young healthy male subjects. All study procedures will be conducted at Molecular NeuroImaging (MNI) in New Haven, CT. Approximately 3 patients with AD and 3 young male HVs will be recruited to participate in this study. HVs will be screened to ensure that there is no evidence of cognitive decline or significant neurological deficit.
 All eligible subjects will be required to visit the study center on at least 2 occasions:.
 1. for one or more screening visits which should include a history and physical examination, laboratory and extensive neuro-psychological testing and MRI brain scanning. AD subjects will also undergo Amyvid PET imaging as part of the Screening Visit.
 2. on one day for baseline examinations and MNI-672 administration and subsequent SPECT scanning- followed by safety measures.

>>NCT00788047
This drug-drug interaction study is being conducted to evaluate the potential effect of Dimebon on the pharmacokinetics on dextromethorphan, a probe substrate of the cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) enzyme, after multiple dose administration to healthy adult subjects.

>>NCT01867359
Background:.
 - Researchers are interested in learning more about dementia and its causes. They want to look at the genetic basis of dementia. Identifying genetic aspects of dementia may help provide better tests and treatments for it. It may also show rare gene variants that can cause or alter a person's risks for developing dementia. This study will look at people who have dementia, their family members and healthy volunteers.
 Objectives:.
 - To study genetic influences on dementia.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals who have been diagnosed with dementia.
 - Family members of individuals who have been diagnosed with dementia.
 - Healthy volunteers at least 18 years of age.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be interviewed and answer questions about their medical history. They will also provide general information on the relatives' medical histories.
 - Participants will provide a blood sample for genetic testing.
 - Participants will remain on the study for up to 10 years. They will have regular visits to monitor their brain health and function.
 - Treatment will not be provided as part of this study. Background:.
 - Researchers are interested in learning more about dementia and its causes. They want to look at the genetic basis of dementia. Identifying genetic aspects of dementia may help provide better tests and treatments for it. It may also show rare gene variants that can cause or alter a person's risks for developing dementia. This study will look at people who have dementia, their family members and healthy volunteers.
 Objectives:.
 - To study genetic influences on dementia.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals who have been diagnosed with dementia.
 - Family members of individuals who have been diagnosed with dementia.
 - Healthy volunteers at least 18 years of age.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be interviewed and answer questions about their medical history. They will also provide general information on the relatives' medical histories.
 - Participants will provide a blood sample for genetic testing.
 - Participants will remain on the study for up to 10 years. They will have regular visits to monitor their brain health and function.
 - Treatment will not be provided as part of this study.

>>NCT00009191
Major depression afflicts approximately 25 percent of patients with AD. Depression in AD patients leads to mental suffering, behavioral disturbance (such as aggression), poor cognition, poor self-care, caregiver depression, caregiver burden and early entry into the nursing home. Since major depression is treatable, this additional disability may be avoidable. The use of antidepressants to treat major depression in AD is supported by two studies, although a third does not show a benefit for antidepressants over placebo. Also, the safety of antidepressant treatment in depressed AD patients is poorly studied. A conclusive study showing that depression reduction in AD can be accomplished safely with antidepressant medications and that depression reduction is associated with improvements in activities of daily living, non-mood behavioral disturbances, caregiver burden and caregiver depression would have major clinical and cost implications for the care of the AD patient. This study is a 13-week, double blind, flexible dose, placebo controlled trial of sertraline in the treatment of outpatients with AD and co-morbid major depression. The hypothesis is that antidepressant treatment is superior to placebo in improving mood, in improving cognition, in reducing physical dependency, in reducing caregiver depression and in reducing caregiver burden. It is also hypothesized that the degree of depression reduction is correlated with these improvements. It is further hypothesized that the safety profile of sertraline when compared to placebo is acceptable, especially with regard to risk of falls, sleep disturbance and delirium. One hundred community residing outpatients with probable AD who also meet DSM-IV criteria for major depressive episode will be recruited into the study. They will be randomized to sertraline or placebo and followed through weekly telephone contact by an experienced clinical trials team. Outcomes will be assessed every 3 weeks, for a total of four followup data points. Scales assessing the following domains will be used: depression, cognition, behavioral disturbance, physical dependency, delirium, falls, sleep, other side effects, caregiver depression, caregiver burden, caregiver functioning and caregiver health.

>>NCT01454115
The primary objective is to assess the safety and tolerability of a single oral dose of BMS-708163 in healthy young male subjects and in elderly male and female subjects.

>>NCT01504958
This study looks at the potential benefits of combining cognitive training (mental exercises) together with transcranial magnetic stimulation (also known as TMS) to see if this can make a difference in the condition of people with Alzheimer's disease by improving their disease and the cognitive decline that goes along with it. This study looks at the potential benefits of combining cognitive training (mental exercises) together with transcranial magnetic stimulation (also known as TMS) to see if this can make a difference in the condition of people with Alzheimer's disease by improving their disease and the cognitive decline that goes along with it.

>>NCT00594568
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a fatal degenerative disease of the brain for which there is no cure. AD causes brain cells to die. AD is thought to be caused by an excess of beta-amyloid (-amyloid), a sticky protein in the brain that forms amyloid plaques. At autopsy, AD patients are required to have these amyloid plaques in the brain in order to have a definitive diagnosis of AD. Inhibiting the enzyme gamma-secretase (-secretase) lowers the production of -amyloid. Semagacestat (LY450139) is a functional -secretase inhibitor and was shown to lower -amyloid in blood and spinal fluid in humans tested thus far and in blood, spinal fluid and brain in animals tested thus far. This study used several different tests to measure the effect of semagacestat on both -amyloid and amyloid plaques for some participants. The build-up of amyloid plaques was measured by a brain scan that takes a picture of amyloid plaques in the brain. Other tests measured the overall function of the brain and brain size in some participants. In this trial, participants who initially received placebo (inactive sugar pill) were, at a certain point in the study, switched over to active drug, semagacestat. In other words, all participants could eventually receive active drug. Participation could last approximately 2 years. Participants taking approved AD medications were permitted to participate in this study and continue taking these medications during the study. All participants who completed this study had the option to continue receiving semagacestat by participating in an open-label study.
 Preliminary results from this study (H6L-MC-LFAN [LFAN]) and another similar study (H6L-MC-LFBC [LFBC; NCT00762411]) showed semagacestat did not slow disease progression and was associated with worsening of clinical measures of cognition and the ability to perform activities of daily living. Study drug was stopped in all studies. Studies LFAN, LFBC and open-label H6L-MC-LFBF (LFBF; NCT01035138) were amended to continue collecting safety data, including cognitive scores, for at least 7 months. The Clinical Trial Registry (CTR) will reflect results of analyses from the original LFAN protocol in addition to those from the amended LFAN protocol.

>>NCT02346201
Apathy in Dementia Methylphenidate Trial 2 (ADMET 2) is a Phase III, placebo-controlled, masked, 6 month, 10-center randomized clinical trial sponsored by National Institutes of Aging involving 200 participants with Alzheimer's disease (AD). ADMET 2 is designed to examine the efficacy and safety of methylphenidate as treatment for clinically significant apathy in AD participants. ADMET 2 will enroll participants from real world settings such as outpatient, nursing home and assisted living facilities and will examine the effects of methylphenidate on apathy and cognition. ADMET 2 will also conduct careful safety monitoring. Apathy in Dementia Methylphenidate Trial 2 (ADMET 2) is a Phase III, placebo-controlled, masked, 6 month, 10-center randomized clinical trial sponsored by National Institutes of Aging involving 200 participants with Alzheimer's disease (AD). ADMET 2 is designed to examine the efficacy and safety of methylphenidate as treatment for clinically significant apathy in AD participants. ADMET 2 will enroll participants from real world settings such as outpatient, nursing home and assisted living facilities and will examine the effects of methylphenidate on apathy and cognition. ADMET 2 will also conduct careful safety monitoring.

>>NCT00208819
The purpose of this study is to determine whether an antipsychotic medication alone or an antipsychotic medication in combination with divalproex is the most effective and safest way to treat agitation in elderly patients with dementia. The purpose of this study is to determine whether an antipsychotic medication alone or an antipsychotic medication in combination with divalproex is the most effective and safest way to treat agitation in elderly patients with dementia.

>>NCT00795730
This is a multiple dose study of NSA-789, the purpose of which is to assess the safety and tolerability in healthy subjects and subjects with Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT01594346
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of 2000 international units of Vitamin E (alpha tocopherol)on cognitive function of aging persons with Down syndrome. It is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial lasting 36 months. It is expected that Vitamin E will slow the deterioration in cognitive functions associated with Alzheimer disease. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of 2000 international units of Vitamin E (alpha tocopherol)on cognitive function of aging persons with Down syndrome. It is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial lasting 36 months. It is expected that Vitamin E will slow the deterioration in cognitive functions associated with Alzheimer disease.

>>NCT00551772
SB-742457 is a 5HT6 receptor antagonist that is in development for the symptomatic treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease . To date, all clinical trials have been conducted using a capsule formulation of SB-742457. However, it is intended to conduct all futures studies with a tablet formulation. The aim of this study is to assess the pharmacokinetic profile of SB-742457 and its major metabolites following single doses of both the capsule and tablet formulations.

>>NCT02814422
Because of the rapid aging of the global population, dementia has become a serious problem and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. AD is pathologically characterized by substantial neuronal loss and chronic inflammation that is associated with cerebrovascular and parenchymal accumulation of proteinaceous deposits enriched in amyloid-beta (A). More recent evidence shows it is due to an increased blood-to-brain delivery of circulating A and significant peripheral A metabolism occurs in association with post-prandial triglyceride-rich lipoproteins.
 In the prodromal stage of AD, patients usually suffer mild cognition impairment (MCI). The annual conversion rate of MCI to AD is around 10% and within 3 years, around 30%50% of these develop dementia. Brain atrophy is an irreversible brain disease that causes problems with cognitive and memory functions in many diseases, such as MCI and AD, etc. In order to allow preventive intervention for AD, MCI must be diagnosed as early as possible, using biomarker assays or simple imaging modality. From 2009-2013, the investigators have registered 4492 patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases (AVD). In addition, the investigators have also registered 8209 cases with no evidence of AVD but with at least 1 cardiovascular risk factor. In this 5-year project, 300 male or female patients with stable symptomatic AVD over 20 years of age and the other 600 patients with no evidence of AVD but with at least 1 CV risk factor, will be enrolled from our previous registry program. The baseline and yearly follow-up study will include clinical examination, neurocognitive function evaluation and laboratory tests (TC, HDL-C, LDL-C, TG, hs-CRP and A-40, A-42, tau protein and other biological signatures: adiponectin, MMP-3, MMP-9, IL-6, Fibrinogen, Lp-PLA2, 8-Isoprostane, hFABP, sVCAM-1, sICAM-1, CA-125, MCP-1, TNF-, cTnI, NT-proBNP, CNP, NGAL).
 The purposes of this 5-year project are (1) to clarify the association of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein and the development of dementia; (2) to validate the diagnostic power and prognostic implication of ultra-low-concentration biomarkers (A40, A42 and tau) for dementia. Because of the rapid aging of the global population, dementia has become a serious problem and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. AD is pathologically characterized by substantial neuronal loss and chronic inflammation that is associated with cerebrovascular and parenchymal accumulation of proteinaceous deposits enriched in amyloid-beta (A). More recent evidence shows it is due to an increased blood-to-brain delivery of circulating A and significant peripheral A metabolism occurs in association with post-prandial triglyceride-rich lipoproteins.
 In the prodromal stage of AD, patients usually suffer mild cognition impairment (MCI). The annual conversion rate of MCI to AD is around 10% and within 3 years, around 30%50% of these develop dementia. Brain atrophy is an irreversible brain disease that causes problems with cognitive and memory functions in many diseases, such as MCI and AD, etc. In order to allow preventive intervention for AD, MCI must be diagnosed as early as possible, using biomarker assays or simple imaging modality. From 2009-2013, the investigators have registered 4492 patients with atherosclerotic vascular diseases (AVD). In addition, the investigators have also registered 8209 cases with no evidence of AVD but with at least 1 cardiovascular risk factor. In this 5-year project, 300 male or female patients with stable symptomatic AVD over 20 years of age and the other 600 patients with no evidence of AVD but with at least 1 CV risk factor, will be enrolled from our previous registry program. The baseline and yearly follow-up study will include clinical examination, neurocognitive function evaluation and laboratory tests (TC, HDL-C, LDL-C, TG, hs-CRP and A-40, A-42, tau protein and other biological signatures: adiponectin, MMP-3, MMP-9, IL-6, Fibrinogen, Lp-PLA2, 8-Isoprostane, hFABP, sVCAM-1, sICAM-1, CA-125, MCP-1, TNF-, cTnI, NT-proBNP, CNP, NGAL).
 The purposes of this 5-year project are (1) to clarify the association of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein and the development of dementia; (2) to validate the diagnostic power and prognostic implication of ultra-low-concentration biomarkers (A40, A42 and tau) for dementia.

>>NCT02756858
This open label extension study is designed to provide continued access to ANAVEX 2-73 for eligible subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease who have previously participated in the Anavex sponsored study ANAVEX2-73-002.

>>NCT01969136
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 2 fixed doses of EVP-6124 compared to placebo for 26 weeks in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease currently receiving stable treatment or previously treated with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor.

>>NCT01966666
The purpose of the study is to determine the highest dose of TPI-287 that is safe and tolerable when administered as an intravenous infusion to participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD), to measure pharmacokinetic properties of the drug as well as to gauge preliminary efficacy of TPI-287 on disease progression. The purpose of the study is to determine the highest dose of TPI-287 that is safe and tolerable when administered as an intravenous infusion to participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD), to measure pharmacokinetic properties of the drug as well as to gauge preliminary efficacy of TPI-287 on disease progression.

>>NCT01404169
The objective is to demonstrate that donepezil hydrochloride 10 mg/day has superior efficacy compared with placebo in cognitive function in Chinese subjects with severe Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00965835
The purpose of this study is to develop small molecule radio-labeled probes of beta-amyloid, to be used with positron emission tomography (PET) for early detection and treatment monitoring of Alzheimer disease (AD). The study hypothesis is that PET imaging of small molecule probes, in the form of novel fluorescent dyes with radioactive labels, will demonstrate cerebral patterns in patients with AD that are distinct from those of age-matched persons who are cognitively intact. The purpose of this study is to develop small molecule radio-labeled probes of beta-amyloid, to be used with positron emission tomography (PET) for early detection and treatment monitoring of Alzheimer disease (AD). The study hypothesis is that PET imaging of small molecule probes, in the form of novel fluorescent dyes with radioactive labels, will demonstrate cerebral patterns in patients with AD that are distinct from those of age-matched persons who are cognitively intact.

>>NCT00051909
Study of an investigational medication for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease in patients who are not taking Aricept, Reminyl, Exelon.

>>NCT01524887
The purpose of this study is to provide evidence of efficacy and safety to support the development of IGIV, 10% as a treatment option for patients with mild to moderate Alzheimers Disease.

>>NCT02769065
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic (PK) of TAK-071 when administered as single rising dose (SRD) and multiple rising dose (MRD) orally in healthy participants and participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild Alzheimer disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic (PK) of TAK-071 when administered as single rising dose (SRD) and multiple rising dose (MRD) orally in healthy participants and participants with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild Alzheimer disease (AD).

>>NCT01428362
The purpose of this study is to determine whether VI-1121 is safe, well tolerated and effective as a daily treatment for Alzheimer's disease that is worsening despite current treatment.

>>NCT00486044
The purpose of this study is to see how simvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering drug, affects processes related to the development of Alzheimer's disease, including: 1) levels of a substance called beta-amyloid-42 found in the spinal fluid surrounding the brain, 2) blood flow in the brain, 3) inflammation in the brain and 4) cognitive function. The purpose of this study is to see how simvastatin, a cholesterol-lowering drug, affects processes related to the development of Alzheimer's disease, including: 1) levels of a substance called beta-amyloid-42 found in the spinal fluid surrounding the brain, 2) blood flow in the brain, 3) inflammation in the brain and 4) cognitive function.

>>NCT01700556
The UP-TECH project aims at developing an UPgrading quality of care for Alzheimer's disease patients through the integration of services and the use of new TECHnologies in order to also improving the quality of life of their family caregivers. The UP-TECH project aims at developing an UPgrading quality of care for Alzheimer's disease patients through the integration of services and the use of new TECHnologies in order to also improving the quality of life of their family caregivers.

>>NCT02800395
According to several reports, the oxidative stress and the nutrition could have an impact in the Alzheimer disease.
 The association of these two parameters measurements and the cognitive impairment decline could help in a predictive diagnosis of cognitive decline evolution in patients presenting cognitive disorders.
 This is a monocentric prospective "routine care" clinical trial on patients showing cognitive troubles especially memory complaints.
 The objective is to demonstrate a correlation between oxydative stress and nutrition biomarkers and the clinical evolution of patients complaining of cognitive impairments.
 The neuropsychologic data collection (the mini mental Status Examination (MMSE), the clock test, the Grober-Buschke test (FCSR-IR), the executive function evaluated by the Trail making test and the medical imaging (by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or tomography in case of MRI contraindication) will be realized during the study inclusion phase in the usual intake of patients. Whole blood samples for the oxydative and nutrition biomarkers measurements will be taken at the study inclusion day during the stay at the Day hospital dedicated to the routine intake of patients issued from the memory consultation.
 In this study, the principal evaluation criteria will be the MMSE score evolution during the 60 months of the patients follow-up, measured during the routine visits scheduled approximately every 6 months, according to the french national authority for health recommendations. It will allow evaluating the correlation between the cognitive decline evolution measured by MMSE during the Alzheimer disease or related diseases method during the 2 years follow-up and the oxydative stress blood markers.

>>NCT02384993
The purpose of the aeRobic Exercise and Cognitive Health (REACH) study is to understand how an aerobic exercise intervention might help promote brain health and cognition, thereby delaying the onset of clinical symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of the aeRobic Exercise and Cognitive Health (REACH) study is to understand how an aerobic exercise intervention might help promote brain health and cognition, thereby delaying the onset of clinical symptoms of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00438568
The purpose of this study is to find out if insulin, when administered as a "nasal spray" into the nasal passages, improves memory in adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to find out if insulin, when administered as a "nasal spray" into the nasal passages, improves memory in adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01325662
This is a study to evaluate the feasibility and tolerability of low-rate continuous Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) sampling and to estimate the number of participants who exhibit severe baseline instability of CSF amyloid beta isoform A40 concentrations in healthy participants.

>>NCT01054976
This study will examine whether the administration of galantamine is effective for improvement of attention and more effective for patients with serious disturbance of attention by administering galantamine to patients with Alzheimer's dementia and performing an attention test on baseline, week 4 and 12. This study will examine whether the administration of galantamine is effective for improvement of attention and more effective for patients with serious disturbance of attention by administering galantamine to patients with Alzheimer's dementia and performing an attention test on baseline, week 4 and 12.

>>NCT00959192
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of ACC-001, an investigational vaccine, in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease in Japan.

>>NCT00241293
The purpose of this study is :.
 - to look for changes induced by aging in a population of old subjects, during silent word generation tasks studied by fMRI.
 - to look for a possible link between these changes and alterations in language The purpose of this study is :.
 - to look for changes induced by aging in a population of old subjects, during silent word generation tasks studied by fMRI.
 - to look for a possible link between these changes and alterations in language.

>>NCT02221661
The purpose of this study is to assess the performance of AclarusDx, an investigational blood test detecting gene expression information and intended to help physicians in making an Alzheimer's Disease diagnosis in patients having memory complaint and/or cognitive impairments. The purpose of this study is to assess the performance of AclarusDx, an investigational blood test detecting gene expression information and intended to help physicians in making an Alzheimer's Disease diagnosis in patients having memory complaint and/or cognitive impairments.

>>NCT00236574
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of galantamine treatment in patients with mild cognitive impairment. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of galantamine treatment in patients with mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT00153010
Objectives: The objective of this study will be to determine the safety, tolerability, drug blood levels and efficacy of each of three doses of NS 2330 (Tesofensine) given once daily compared with placebo in patients with mild to moderate Dementia of the Alzheimer's Type.

>>NCT02772185
This study is a double blind, sham-controlled clinical trial aiming to compare the long-term effects of stimulation in Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Sixty early AD patients will take part in a phase II/III clinical study over a 1-year period. The study involves transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), cognitive training (CT), detailed neuropsychological and neurological testing. These assessments will occur at baseline, then again at two month (end point). Those who achieve clinical improvement with neurostimulation and cognitive therapy will be invited to receive treatment for 12 months as part of a follow-up study. This study is a double blind, sham-controlled clinical trial aiming to compare the long-term effects of stimulation in Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Sixty early AD patients will take part in a phase II/III clinical study over a 1-year period. The study involves transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), cognitive training (CT), detailed neuropsychological and neurological testing. These assessments will occur at baseline, then again at two month (end point). Those who achieve clinical improvement with neurostimulation and cognitive therapy will be invited to receive treatment for 12 months as part of a follow-up study.

>>NCT01209156
The underlying goal of this study is to assess PBR-111 positron emission tomography (PET) imaging as a tool to detect microglial activation in the brain of Alzheimer disease (AD) research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy volunteers. The underlying goal of this study is to assess PBR-111 positron emission tomography (PET) imaging as a tool to detect microglial activation in the brain of Alzheimer disease (AD) research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy volunteers.

>>NCT01661894
The primary objective is to examine the efficacy of 8-weeks of a locally developed brain-computer interface based system (BrainpalTM)intervention for improving attention and memory in normal elderly. We hypothesize that elderly who have completed the training program will have significant improvement in their attention and memory compared to the controls, based on the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status. The primary objective is to examine the efficacy of 8-weeks of a locally developed brain-computer interface based system (BrainpalTM)intervention for improving attention and memory in normal elderly. We hypothesize that elderly who have completed the training program will have significant improvement in their attention and memory compared to the controls, based on the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status.

>>NCT02711683
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the commonest cause of dementia. There is no effective treatment to cure the disease. Cholinesterase inhibitors, such as donepezil, are widely recommended to patients with mild to moderate AD. But the cognitive function of most of the patients using donepezil gradually aggravate, with Mini-Mental State Examination(MMSE) score falling by 2 points per year on average and donepezil cannot effectively delay AD progress.
 DL-3-n-butylphthalide(NBP) is a synthetic chiral compound containing L- and D-isomers of butylphthalide. It is developed from L-3-n-butylphthalide, which was initially isolated as a pure component from seeds of Apium graveolens in 1978 by researchers of Institute of Medicine of Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. Studies in the past several decades have demonstrated that NBP is effective in alleviating oxidative damage and mitochondria dysfunction, improving microcirculation. NBP was approved by the State Food and Drug Administration of China (SFDA) as a therapeutic drug for treatment of ischemic stroke in 2005 Not only for ischemic stroke, NBP has been reported to increase the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype glutamate receptor 2B(NR2B) and synaptophysin in hippocampus of aged rats after chronic cerebral hypoperfusion and increasing brain acetylcholine level, which are important processes involved in learning and memory. It could alleviate the learning and memory deficits induced by cerebral ischemia in rats. A multicentre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial conducted by Professor Jia investigated that NBP was effective for improving cognitive and global functioning in patients with subcortical vascular cognitive impairment without dementia and exhibited good safety over the 6-month treatment period. The pathogenesis of AD involved mitochondria dysfunction and microcirculation dysfunction, which are the action targets of NBP. Investigators observed that MMSE score lowering slowly when using NBP treatment in patients with mild to moderate AD already receiving donepezil. But investigators lack of system evaluation and follow-up. Hence, investigators hypothesized that NBP may have therapeutic efficacy for patients with AD and designed the present study.

>>NCT00895895
The study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of an investigational drug called SAM-531 at three dosage levels. Subjects will receive either one of the 3 dosage levels of SAM-531, donepezil or placebo for the first 24 weeks of the study (period I). Subjects who receive placebo for period I will be assigned to receive the highest dose of SAM-531 SAM-531 for the remaining 28 weeks of the study, while subjects who received one of the three SAM-531 dosage levels or donepezil in period I will continue with the same study drug (period II). The study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of an investigational drug called SAM-531 at three dosage levels. Subjects will receive either one of the 3 dosage levels of SAM-531, donepezil or placebo for the first 24 weeks of the study (period I). Subjects who receive placebo for period I will be assigned to receive the highest dose of SAM-531 SAM-531 for the remaining 28 weeks of the study, while subjects who received one of the three SAM-531 dosage levels or donepezil in period I will continue with the same study drug (period II).

>>NCT00348140
Rosiglitazone (RSG) has been tested in clinical studies and is approved by the FDA as a treatment for type II diabetes mellitus, a disease that occurs when the body is unable to effectively use glucose. RSG XR, the investigational drug used in this study, is an extended-release form of RSG.
 This study tests whether RSG XR safely provides clinical benefit to people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) when combined with one of the currently approved AD medications, Aricept, Razadyne or Exelon. RSG XR is a new approach to AD therapy and this study tests a new way to treat AD by testing whether one's genetic makeup affects the response to the study drug. Clinical data suggesting that RSG may benefit AD patients was first seen in a small study performed at the University of Washington and then from a larger GSK study conducted in Europe and New Zealand. In the first study, subjects receiving RSG once daily for 6 months scored significantly better on 3 tests of memory and thought than those who did not receive RSG. In the GSK study, those that appeared to benefit most from treatment with RSG XR had a specific genetic pattern. They did not have the gene that caused them to produce the protein apolipoprotein E e4 (APOE e4). Subjects who have the APOE e4 gene may have two copies, one from each parent or they may have only one APOE e4 gene meaning that they inherited either the APOE e2 or APOE e3 version of the gene, instead of APOE e4, from one of their parents. Subjects with one copy of the APOE e4 gene remained at their same level of thinking ability while those with two copies of the APOE e4 gene, continued to worsen during the 6-month treatment. The current study will more directly test the effectiveness or RSG XR on people who either have or lack the APOE e4 gene. Rosiglitazone (RSG) has been tested in clinical studies and is approved by the FDA as a treatment for type II diabetes mellitus, a disease that occurs when the body is unable to effectively use glucose. RSG XR, the investigational drug used in this study, is an extended-release form of RSG.
 This study tests whether RSG XR safely provides clinical benefit to people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) when combined with one of the currently approved AD medications, Aricept, Razadyne or Exelon. RSG XR is a new approach to AD therapy and this study tests a new way to treat AD by testing whether one's genetic makeup affects the response to the study drug. Clinical data suggesting that RSG may benefit AD patients was first seen in a small study performed at the University of Washington and then from a larger GSK study conducted in Europe and New Zealand. In the first study, subjects receiving RSG once daily for 6 months scored significantly better on 3 tests of memory and thought than those who did not receive RSG. In the GSK study, those that appeared to benefit most from treatment with RSG XR had a specific genetic pattern. They did not have the gene that caused them to produce the protein apolipoprotein E e4 (APOE e4). Subjects who have the APOE e4 gene may have two copies, one from each parent or they may have only one APOE e4 gene meaning that they inherited either the APOE e2 or APOE e3 version of the gene, instead of APOE e4, from one of their parents. Subjects with one copy of the APOE e4 gene remained at their same level of thinking ability while those with two copies of the APOE e4 gene, continued to worsen during the 6-month treatment. The current study will more directly test the effectiveness or RSG XR on people who either have or lack the APOE e4 gene.

>>NCT02434666
This is a long-term-safety roll-over extension study for a Phase II Study (Protocol CPC-001-07). This is a long-term-safety roll-over extension study for a Phase II Study (Protocol CPC-001-07).

>>NCT01924858
This is an open label, PET study in healthy male subjects to determine if GSK2647544 is able to cross the blood-brain-barrier. The study will use GSK2647544 radiolabelled with fluorine-18 ([18F] GSK2647544) to determine the ratio of the concentration of the compound in tissue to that in plasma at equilibrium, expressed as the PET volume of distribution (VT). The study will consist of at least four visits; 2 screening visits, scanning day and follow-up. On Day 1 (scanning day) the subject will receive a single oral dose of GSK2647544 (100 mg) followed approximately 2 hours later by a single intravenous (IV) infusion of [18F]-GSK2647544 and a dynamic PET scan. Arterial and venous blood sampling will be used to determine the plasma kinetics of [18F]-GSK2647544 and unlabeled GSK2647544. In addition, each subject will undergo a structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain to aid in the definition of neuroanatomy. The dose of GSK2647544 was selected based on the review of the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) data obtained in the first time in human (FTIH) study.

>>NCT00593372
The purpose of this study is to collect data on the effects of behavioral interventions for memory and communication deficits in persons taking cholinesterase inhibitors compared with the effects of cholinesterase inhibitors alone. Initial testing will include a written case history, tests of communication skills and interviews with the participants, family and staff caregivers to help select potential goals for treatment. Participants will be randomly selected to participate in Group A (control) or Group B (intervention). Group A will use a Caregiver Checklist for eight weeks to identify any increase or decrease in the occurrence of the identified communication deficits. Group B will have 16 treatment sessions by a Speech Language Pathologist during the eight-week period. A post test will be administered to all participants. The purpose of this study is to collect data on the effects of behavioral interventions for memory and communication deficits in persons taking cholinesterase inhibitors compared with the effects of cholinesterase inhibitors alone. Initial testing will include a written case history, tests of communication skills and interviews with the participants, family and staff caregivers to help select potential goals for treatment. Participants will be randomly selected to participate in Group A (control) or Group B (intervention). Group A will use a Caregiver Checklist for eight weeks to identify any increase or decrease in the occurrence of the identified communication deficits. Group B will have 16 treatment sessions by a Speech Language Pathologist during the eight-week period. A post test will be administered to all participants.

>>NCT00142324
Primary Aim.
 To determine whether;.
 - Donepezil is significantly better than placebo in the management of agitation in Alzheimer's Disease that has not responded to or is inappropriate for a standardised brief psychosocial treatment.
 Secondary Aims.
 To determine whether;.
 - Donepezil has a significant positive or negative impact upon quality of life compared with placebo.
 - whether there is a significant difference between Donepezil and placebo with respect to cognitive performance.
 - the cost effectiveness of the pharmacological treatment for agitation.

>>NCT02414607
Elderberries (Sambuci fructus) have been shown in a number of studies to have significant anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects. Multiple human and animal studies have supported the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects of elderberry preparations and it has been used in natural medicine for hundreds of years. Studies examining factors that may decrease the risk of Alzheimer's disease have revealed that drinking juices with similar properties to elderberries is one of the most reliable way to decrease risk. As such the investigators wish to determine the effects of elderberry juice on cognitive decline in a group of subjects at high risk for Alzheimer's disease, those with mild cognitive impairment. Elderberry juice is a commercially available nutritional supplement and easily available to this population.

>>NCT02353845
One purpose of this study is to construct the diagnosis system for early Alzheimer's disease(AD), which is also called amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and then further construct the predictable classifier from aMCI to AD based on Multi-Modality MRI characteristics of aMCI patients. One purpose of this study is to construct the diagnosis system for early Alzheimer's disease(AD), which is also called amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and then further construct the predictable classifier from aMCI to AD based on Multi-Modality MRI characteristics of aMCI patients.

>>NCT02585232
The purpose of this randomized controlled pilot study is to examine the preliminary effectiveness, feasibility and potential treatment moderators (i.e., behavioral symptoms and spousal relationship status) of a newly developed intervention for individuals with dementia and their family caregivers that combines elements of the established care consultation (CC) approach with additional counseling modules (CC+C). Outcomes for Veterans with dementia and their family caregivers (e.g., depressive symptoms, care-related burden, quality of life, pleasant events, etc.) will be assessed after 6 months of treatment and again at 12 months. The purpose of this randomized controlled pilot study is to examine the preliminary effectiveness, feasibility and potential treatment moderators (i.e., behavioral symptoms and spousal relationship status) of a newly developed intervention for individuals with dementia and their family caregivers that combines elements of the established care consultation (CC) approach with additional counseling modules (CC+C). Outcomes for Veterans with dementia and their family caregivers (e.g., depressive symptoms, care-related burden, quality of life, pleasant events, etc.) will be assessed after 6 months of treatment and again at 12 months.

>>NCT00443417
The purpose of this study is to find optimistic dose and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of SK-PC-B70M in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01254773
This study in individuals with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease is designed to assess:(1) safety and tolerability (2) the capacity of subcutaneous bapineuzumab to reduce brain amyloid load as measured by positron emission tomography (PET) scans.

>>NCT01469351
Today Alzheimers disease can not be cured. Animal experiments have shown that the hormone GLP-1 can improve memory in Alzheimer-prone mice.
 The investigators hypothesis is that a 6-month treatment with the GLP-1 receptor stimulating drug liraglutide will reduce the intracerebral amyloid deposition in the central nervous system (CNS) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and thereby reduce the clinical symptoms of the disease. Today Alzheimers disease can not be cured. Animal experiments have shown that the hormone GLP-1 can improve memory in Alzheimer-prone mice.
 The investigators hypothesis is that a 6-month treatment with the GLP-1 receptor stimulating drug liraglutide will reduce the intracerebral amyloid deposition in the central nervous system (CNS) in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and thereby reduce the clinical symptoms of the disease.

>>NCT02640092
The purpose of this protocol is to evaluate the longitudinal change in tau burden using [18F]MNI-798, tau targeted radiopharmaceutical compared to baseline in prodromal, mild and moderate AD subjects and in similarly-aged HV subjects.

>>NCT01496170
This study will assess the safety and pharmacodynamics of three different doses of MK-8931, a -secretase inhibitor, in participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT01782742
Retinoid X receptors (RXR) are nuclear receptors that have been linked to numerous metabolic pathways relevant to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and A (harmful protein) production and removal. The study drug "bexarotene" is an FDA approved anti-cancer agent but is not approved for use in Alzheimer's disease. Bexarotene acts as an RXR agonist that has reduced A (harmful protein) in the brain in experimental models of Alzheimer's disease.
 This study aims to determine the safety and effect on abnormal proteins found in the brain (based on brain scans) of 300 mg of "bexarotene" administered for one month compared to placebo (inactive agent).

>>NCT02187276
Background and objectives: The aims of this naturalistic study were: to analyze factors which could be predictive of good response to cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEI), such as: age, sex, schooling, mild (CDR 1) or moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD),(CDR 2), Apoliprotein epsilon 4 (APOE 4), among others, in their cognitive and clinical response. We also classified patients according to their response to Mini mental State of Examination (MMSE). Finally we saw the polymorphisms of APO E and cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) and tried to correlate the response with different allelic forms of Apo E and among others with wild type homozygotes (wt/wt) and their polymorphisms (CYP2D6*3,*4, *5, *6 and 10) of CYP 2D6.
 Patients and Methods: 129 patients were diagnosed as AD or AD+cerebrovascular disease (CVD) mild or moderate. After 12 month-treatment, 97 patients completed the study. They were assessed (four) times. In the first visit, without taking ChEI, after 3, 6 and 12 month-treatment, they were taking donepezil or rivastigmine or galantamine. We also extracted 5 mL of blood sample to genotype the DNA. In each visit, we applied cognitive, functional, mood and behavior scales. Good responders were defined as those who scored > 2 in MMSE.
 Results and Conclusion: In longitudinal analysis, patients with mild AD and good responders at 3 months were considered good responders at 12 months. We obtained a higher rate of good responders comparing with other researches (27.8%). There was no correlation between dose, APOE and CYP 2D6 polymorphisms, although we already obtained clinical results with the dose dosage of 5mg. Background and objectives: The aims of this naturalistic study were: to analyze factors which could be predictive of good response to cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEI), such as: age, sex, schooling, mild (CDR 1) or moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD),(CDR 2), Apoliprotein epsilon 4 (APOE 4), among others, in their cognitive and clinical response. We also classified patients according to their response to Mini mental State of Examination (MMSE). Finally we saw the polymorphisms of APO E and cytochrome P450 2D6 (CYP2D6) and tried to correlate the response with different allelic forms of Apo E and among others with wild type homozygotes (wt/wt) and their polymorphisms (CYP2D6*3,*4, *5, *6 and 10) of CYP 2D6.
 Patients and Methods: 129 patients were diagnosed as AD or AD+cerebrovascular disease (CVD) mild or moderate. After 12 month-treatment, 97 patients completed the study. They were assessed (four) times. In the first visit, without taking ChEI, after 3, 6 and 12 month-treatment, they were taking donepezil or rivastigmine or galantamine. We also extracted 5 mL of blood sample to genotype the DNA. In each visit, we applied cognitive, functional, mood and behavior scales. Good responders were defined as those who scored > 2 in MMSE.
 Results and Conclusion: In longitudinal analysis, patients with mild AD and good responders at 3 months were considered good responders at 12 months. We obtained a higher rate of good responders comparing with other researches (27.8%). There was no correlation between dose, APOE and CYP 2D6 polymorphisms, although we already obtained clinical results with the dose dosage of 5mg.

>>NCT02330510
The prevalence of both Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and stroke doubles each decade over 65 years old. Both are major causes of dementia, currently estimated to affect 46 million people worldwide. The current costs globally are $818 billion. Additionally, in population studies elders over 65 years, "covert" cerebral small vessel disease appears on MRI scans as silent lacunar infarcts in 25% as Microbleeds in 10% and as focal or diffuse 'incidental' white matter disease (WMD) in 95%. WMD is extensive in 20%, with a clinical threshold effect around 10cc2. Small vessel disease is even more common in dementia, often coexisting with AD and independently contributing to cognitive decline and progression to dementia. Longitudinal imaging using cerebral amyloid labeling opens a new opportunity to understand the additive/interactive effects of small vessel disease and AD.
 The design of this study includes recruitment of two cohorts, including Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and/or early Alzheimer Disease subjects from memory clinics and subjects with strokes/TIA from stroke prevention clinics. Inclusion criteria include the presence of moderate/extensive white matter disease, eg. Fazekas score of 2 (with confluent peri-ventricular hyperintensities) or Fazekas score of 3, as determined by previous MR or CT, > 60 years of age, Mini-Mental Status Exam (MMSE) scores >= 20. Subjects will undergo 3T structural MRI (including T1, PD/T2, FLAIR, GRE, DTI, ASL and resting state fMRI), glucose PET, amyloid PET (using AV-45 florbetapir) and neuropsychological testing, as well as blood sampling. Repeat MR and PET/CT imaging and neuropsychological testing will be conducted at 24 months. The imaging portion is designed to closely parallel the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) in order to benefit from the availability of both cognitively normal controls (NC), MCI and Alzheimer's disease subjects with minimal WMD. The prevalence of both Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and stroke doubles each decade over 65 years old. Both are major causes of dementia, currently estimated to affect 46 million people worldwide. The current costs globally are $818 billion. Additionally, in population studies elders over 65 years, "covert" cerebral small vessel disease appears on MRI scans as silent lacunar infarcts in 25% as Microbleeds in 10% and as focal or diffuse 'incidental' white matter disease (WMD) in 95%. WMD is extensive in 20%, with a clinical threshold effect around 10cc2. Small vessel disease is even more common in dementia, often coexisting with AD and independently contributing to cognitive decline and progression to dementia. Longitudinal imaging using cerebral amyloid labeling opens a new opportunity to understand the additive/interactive effects of small vessel disease and AD.
 The design of this study includes recruitment of two cohorts, including Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and/or early Alzheimer Disease subjects from memory clinics and subjects with strokes/TIA from stroke prevention clinics. Inclusion criteria include the presence of moderate/extensive white matter disease, eg. Fazekas score of 2 (with confluent peri-ventricular hyperintensities) or Fazekas score of 3, as determined by previous MR or CT, > 60 years of age, Mini-Mental Status Exam (MMSE) scores >= 20. Subjects will undergo 3T structural MRI (including T1, PD/T2, FLAIR, GRE, DTI, ASL and resting state fMRI), glucose PET, amyloid PET (using AV-45 florbetapir) and neuropsychological testing, as well as blood sampling. Repeat MR and PET/CT imaging and neuropsychological testing will be conducted at 24 months. The imaging portion is designed to closely parallel the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) in order to benefit from the availability of both cognitively normal controls (NC), MCI and Alzheimer's disease subjects with minimal WMD.

>>NCT00715858
The purpose of this study is to examine the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with Alzheimer's disease for biomarkers of inflammation and their response to the antibiotics doxycycline and rifampin. The results of this preliminary analysis will be used in defining the direction of further research. The purpose of this study is to examine the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with Alzheimer's disease for biomarkers of inflammation and their response to the antibiotics doxycycline and rifampin. The results of this preliminary analysis will be used in defining the direction of further research.

>>NCT01713816
Antioxidants are important for having a good memory and for smart thinking when people get old and that is important for everyone's quality of life. This research will find out if normal aging and Alzheimer's disease use up brain antioxidants. It will develop a new imaging tool that can help doctors to stop cognitive decline. Antioxidants are important for having a good memory and for smart thinking when people get old and that is important for everyone's quality of life. This research will find out if normal aging and Alzheimer's disease use up brain antioxidants. It will develop a new imaging tool that can help doctors to stop cognitive decline.

>>NCT01168245
The aim of this study is to examine if combined treatment with TMS and cognitive training (CoTra) for several weeks can produce a sustained improvement in cognitive and behavioral symptomatology of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The aim of this study is to examine if combined treatment with TMS and cognitive training (CoTra) for several weeks can produce a sustained improvement in cognitive and behavioral symptomatology of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients.

>>NCT00838877
The study is carried out in order to investigate if [18F]AZD4694, compared to [11C]AZD2184, is a suitable PET ligand for in vivo imaging of A amyloid depositions in the human brain. In the study the two PET ligands will be examined in both healthy volunteers and patients with Alzheimer's Disease. A whole body dosimetry scanning will be performed in 6 healthy volunteers to obtain human data to estimate a safe dose.

>>NCT00566397
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PF 04494700 in participants with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00663026
The study will evaluate the safety and effectiveness of bapineuzumab for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer disease. Subjects will be in the study for six months and will receive subcutaneous injections once per week.

>>NCT00900770
The purpose of this study is to determine whether asymptomatic older individuals with high amyloid burden will subsequently manifest cognitive impairment and eventually progress to clinical Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine whether asymptomatic older individuals with high amyloid burden will subsequently manifest cognitive impairment and eventually progress to clinical Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT01079819
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the pharmacokinetics, safety and tolerability of BMS-708163 administered as single and multiple doses in Chinese subjects.

>>NCT00976118
This phase 2 study was designed to evaluate the activity of oral masitinib (AB1010) administered at 2 dose levels during 24 weeks to patients with mild to moderate confirmed Alzheimer's type disease.

>>NCT00234637
This is a prospective, multicenter, open-label study. Following screening and baseline assessments, eligible patients will be switched to rivastigmine and will enter the 16 week run-in rivastigmine treatment phase. After completion of assessments at the end of the run-in phase, patients who were not sufficiently stabilized on rivastigmine alone will receive add-on memantine to their rivastigmine treatment; patients who were stabilized on rivastigmine alone will have completed and be discontinued from the study.

>>NCT00663936
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of T-817MA in AD patients to treat dementia. Efficacy will be cognitive function, as measured by the ADAS-cog cognitive assessment.
 The secondary objectives of the study are to evaluate the safety of T-817MA and the activities of daily living (assessed with the ADCS-ADL) of AD patients taking T-817MA and to evaluate the efficacy of T-817MA in AD patients with an overall global assessment using the ADCS-CGIC.

>>NCT00299676
The purpose of this observational study is to investigate the changes in cognitive functioning, behavior and functional improvement in Alzheimer's disease patients treated with Galantamine who are living at home (i.e. not in permanent residential care) and to obtain information regarding usual clinical practice that can be used for communicating treatment expectations to patients and supporters. The purpose of this observational study is to investigate the changes in cognitive functioning, behavior and functional improvement in Alzheimer's disease patients treated with Galantamine who are living at home (i.e. not in permanent residential care) and to obtain information regarding usual clinical practice that can be used for communicating treatment expectations to patients and supporters.

>>NCT00306124
This study aims to determine whether levodopa is effective in boosting learning and memory in healthy subjects and patients with dementia or Mild Cognitive Impairment.
 We also examine in healthy subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging which brain regions mediate improved learning after levodopa administration. This study aims to determine whether levodopa is effective in boosting learning and memory in healthy subjects and patients with dementia or Mild Cognitive Impairment.
 We also examine in healthy subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging which brain regions mediate improved learning after levodopa administration.

>>NCT00013650
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of the drug cyclophosphamide (CY) on inflammation and immune responses in individuals with Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
 Inflammation and immunologic response appear to contribute to neurodegeneration in people with AD. In a process called gliosis, the brain immune cells microglia and astroglia undergo activation and possible proliferation, which promotes neuronal injury and death. Activated microglia and astroglia produce compounds that are cytotoxic to neurons and they express molecules that greatly amplify immune and inflammatory processes in the brain. Excessive glial activation and proliferation are thought to be pivotal events that hasten the demise of synapses and neurons in AD. Fortunately, increased understanding of immune and inflammatory pathology in AD has provided new opportunities for designing disease-altering treatments for AD. Studies suggest that medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and immunomodulatory agents may have an important role in altering the course of AD. CY is a potent anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory drug that inhibits proliferation of immune cells. This study will evaluate the effects of CY on individuals with mild to moderate AD.
 Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive either two different doses of CY or placebo (an inactive pill) for 6 months. Participants who receive placebo during the 6 months will have the option of receiving CY for an additional 6 months. Participants will undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the brain. Measures of cerebral spinal fluid biomarkers or neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation and neuroimmune activation will be taken. In addition, peripheral lymphocyte subsets and peripheral markers of inflammation will be assessed. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of the drug cyclophosphamide (CY) on inflammation and immune responses in individuals with Alzheimer's Disease (AD).
 Inflammation and immunologic response appear to contribute to neurodegeneration in people with AD. In a process called gliosis, the brain immune cells microglia and astroglia undergo activation and possible proliferation, which promotes neuronal injury and death. Activated microglia and astroglia produce compounds that are cytotoxic to neurons and they express molecules that greatly amplify immune and inflammatory processes in the brain. Excessive glial activation and proliferation are thought to be pivotal events that hasten the demise of synapses and neurons in AD. Fortunately, increased understanding of immune and inflammatory pathology in AD has provided new opportunities for designing disease-altering treatments for AD. Studies suggest that medications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and immunomodulatory agents may have an important role in altering the course of AD. CY is a potent anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory drug that inhibits proliferation of immune cells. This study will evaluate the effects of CY on individuals with mild to moderate AD.
 Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to receive either two different doses of CY or placebo (an inactive pill) for 6 months. Participants who receive placebo during the 6 months will have the option of receiving CY for an additional 6 months. Participants will undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the brain. Measures of cerebral spinal fluid biomarkers or neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation and neuroimmune activation will be taken. In addition, peripheral lymphocyte subsets and peripheral markers of inflammation will be assessed.

>>NCT00647478
The aim is to assess the relationship between levels of IGF-I system components and cognitive status in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), in elderly subjects with normal cognitive function and in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The aim is to assess the relationship between levels of IGF-I system components and cognitive status in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), in elderly subjects with normal cognitive function and in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

>>NCT00440050
The purpose of this study is to determine whether chronic DHA (Docosahexaenoic Acid) supplementation slows the progression of cognitive and functional decline in mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine whether chronic DHA (Docosahexaenoic Acid) supplementation slows the progression of cognitive and functional decline in mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00479219
To assess the pharmacodynamics (PD) of biomarkers amyloid beta peptide 40 and 42 (Ab40 and Ab42) in CSF, following single oral doses of GSI-953, an investigational drug, in healthy young subjects and patients with Alzheimer Disease (AD).

>>NCT02720445
The purpose of the study is to see if daily transdermal nicotine is able to produce a significant cognitive, clinical and functional improvement in participants with MCI. Neuronal nicotinic receptors have long been known to play a critical role in memory function in preclinical studies, with nicotine improving attention, learning and memory function.
 The study will enroll 300 participants for a 2 year period. Participants will be randomized (50:50) to either the transdermal nicotine, beginning at 7mg/day and increasing to 21mg/day or placebo skin patch.

>>NCT00857506
The primary objective of this protocol is to determine if brain amyloid imaged with florbetapir F 18 (18F-AV-45) PET scans is predictive of progressive cognitive impairment during the subsequent 36 months for groups of: normal controls, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.
 Hypothesis 1: The probability a subject will experience progressive cognitive impairment within 36 months of imaging will be greater in subjects whose 18F-AV-45 PET scan was rated amyloid positive compared to subjects whose PET scan was rated amyloid negative.
 The secondary objective is to determine the stability, over 36 months of a clinical diagnosis, of AD in patients with an amyloid positive 18F-AV-45 PET.
 Hypothesis 2: The diagnosis of AD will remain unchanged in patients whose PET scan were rated as amyloid positive. The primary objective of this protocol is to determine if brain amyloid imaged with florbetapir F 18 (18F-AV-45) PET scans is predictive of progressive cognitive impairment during the subsequent 36 months for groups of: normal controls, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.
 Hypothesis 1: The probability a subject will experience progressive cognitive impairment within 36 months of imaging will be greater in subjects whose 18F-AV-45 PET scan was rated amyloid positive compared to subjects whose PET scan was rated amyloid negative.
 The secondary objective is to determine the stability, over 36 months of a clinical diagnosis, of AD in patients with an amyloid positive 18F-AV-45 PET.
 Hypothesis 2: The diagnosis of AD will remain unchanged in patients whose PET scan were rated as amyloid positive.

>>NCT00243451
Our central hypothesis is that the early metabolic lesions of MCI can be reliably detected in individual subjects by objective analysis of [18]F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron-emission tomography (PET) brain images, earlier and more accurately than by subjective clinician rating. Our central hypothesis is that the early metabolic lesions of MCI can be reliably detected in individual subjects by objective analysis of [18]F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron-emission tomography (PET) brain images, earlier and more accurately than by subjective clinician rating.

>>NCT01690195
This is a long term extension study to evaluate safety and tolerability of subjects who complete study M11-793 which is evaluating a new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease on stable doses of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. This is a long term extension study to evaluate safety and tolerability of subjects who complete study M11-793 which is evaluating a new treatment for subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease on stable doses of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors.

>>NCT02833792
STUDY OBJECTIVES.
 Primary:.
 To assess the safety and tolerability of ischemia-tolerant allogeneic human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) manufactured by Stemedica versus placebo administered intravenously to subjects with mild to moderate dementia due to Alzheimer's disease.
 Secondary:.
 To assess the preliminary efficacy of hMSCs versus placebo in subjects with Alzheimer's-related dementia, as evidenced by neurologic, functional and psychiatric endpoints. STUDY OBJECTIVES.
 Primary:.
 To assess the safety and tolerability of ischemia-tolerant allogeneic human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) manufactured by Stemedica versus placebo administered intravenously to subjects with mild to moderate dementia due to Alzheimer's disease.
 Secondary:.
 To assess the preliminary efficacy of hMSCs versus placebo in subjects with Alzheimer's-related dementia, as evidenced by neurologic, functional and psychiatric endpoints.

>>NCT02278367
This study is designed to expand the database of 18F-AV-1451 safety and tau binding as measured by PET imaging and to provide standardized conditions for 18F-AV-1451 use, data collection and analysis to facilitate companion studies including but not limited to, longitudinal studies of aging, depression and traumatic brain injury.

>>NCT02317250
A substantial portion of people covered by Medicare will develop Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia that together devastate the lives of millions of people in the United States and cost us a total of over $200 billion every year. Getting a brain scan with a PET scanner to look for abnormal brain metabolism patterns is recognized as "reasonable and necessary" for some patients with "a recently established diagnosis of dementia" (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Decision Memo CAG-00088R) but the evidence is considered less clear for patients having less severe cognitive problems, and/or for patients getting a brain scan with a PET scanner to look for abnormal proteins in the brain (CMS Decision Memo CAG-00431N). This project employs a scientifically rigorous design (prospective, multi-centered, randomized controlled trial) to determine whether such PET scanning can help distinguish more accurately than is being done in current clinical practice those patients with early molecular changes in their brains who will benefit from Alzheimer related treatments from those patients who will not, as proven by measuring to what extent the PET scans actually lead to earlier appropriate therapy and in fact result in improved outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries and for the health care system in which they obtain care. A substantial portion of people covered by Medicare will develop Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia that together devastate the lives of millions of people in the United States and cost us a total of over $200 billion every year. Getting a brain scan with a PET scanner to look for abnormal brain metabolism patterns is recognized as "reasonable and necessary" for some patients with "a recently established diagnosis of dementia" (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), Decision Memo CAG-00088R) but the evidence is considered less clear for patients having less severe cognitive problems, and/or for patients getting a brain scan with a PET scanner to look for abnormal proteins in the brain (CMS Decision Memo CAG-00431N). This project employs a scientifically rigorous design (prospective, multi-centered, randomized controlled trial) to determine whether such PET scanning can help distinguish more accurately than is being done in current clinical practice those patients with early molecular changes in their brains who will benefit from Alzheimer related treatments from those patients who will not, as proven by measuring to what extent the PET scans actually lead to earlier appropriate therapy and in fact result in improved outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries and for the health care system in which they obtain care.

>>NCT02006641
To establish efficacy of Lu AE58054 as adjunctive therapy to donepezil for symptomatic treatment of patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT00857649
The primary objective of this study is to examine the efficacy of memantine on cognition and behavioural symptoms in outpatients with moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type. The primary objective of this study is to examine the efficacy of memantine on cognition and behavioural symptoms in outpatients with moderate to severe dementia of the Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT00862940
Pre-clinical studies have demonstrated that memantine can decrease the neuronal toxicity associated with excessive glutamate release and calcium overload in neurons. Previous studies have shown that memantine helps to treat the symptoms of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). In AD, the rate of brain tissue loss or atrophy, is faster than in normal aging and this seems to go hand in hand with some of the symptoms of the disease. This suggests that memantine treatment in AD could provide both symptomatic improvement and neuro-protective effects. The purpose of this study was to show whether memantine, in addition to providing symptomatic benefits, can slow the rate of brain atrophy as assessed using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology. Pre-clinical studies have demonstrated that memantine can decrease the neuronal toxicity associated with excessive glutamate release and calcium overload in neurons. Previous studies have shown that memantine helps to treat the symptoms of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). In AD, the rate of brain tissue loss or atrophy, is faster than in normal aging and this seems to go hand in hand with some of the symptoms of the disease. This suggests that memantine treatment in AD could provide both symptomatic improvement and neuro-protective effects. The purpose of this study was to show whether memantine, in addition to providing symptomatic benefits, can slow the rate of brain atrophy as assessed using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology.

>>NCT00867828
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of NKO softgels in reducing decline of global cognitive function as measured by the Neuropsychological Test Battery (NTB), in patients diagnosed with early stage Alzheimer's disease when compared to fish oil and a placebo after 24 weeks of treatment. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of NKO softgels in reducing decline of global cognitive function as measured by the Neuropsychological Test Battery (NTB), in patients diagnosed with early stage Alzheimer's disease when compared to fish oil and a placebo after 24 weeks of treatment.

>>NCT02168920
To evaluate the efficacy (based on mean change in Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory [CMAI] total score from baseline as the primary efficacy variable), dose-response and safety of aripiprazole at 2, 3 and 6 mg/day in comparison with placebo in patients with agitation associated with Alzheimer's type dementia To evaluate the efficacy (based on mean change in Cohen-Mansfield Agitation Inventory [CMAI] total score from baseline as the primary efficacy variable), dose-response and safety of aripiprazole at 2, 3 and 6 mg/day in comparison with placebo in patients with agitation associated with Alzheimer's type dementia.

>>NCT00459355
The purpose of this study was to test the effectiveness of a new multimodal educational intervention to improve home safety for persons with dementia of the Alzheimer's type and their home caregivers. The purpose of this study was to test the effectiveness of a new multimodal educational intervention to improve home safety for persons with dementia of the Alzheimer's type and their home caregivers.

>>NCT02750982
This is a prospective investigation of the effects of Laughter therapy (LT) on perceived stress, self-efficacy, mood and other wellness measures in people with the following neurological conditions: Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, brain injury, Huntington's Disease, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's Disease, post-stroke, spinal cord injury. This is a prospective investigation of the effects of Laughter therapy (LT) on perceived stress, self-efficacy, mood and other wellness measures in people with the following neurological conditions: Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, brain injury, Huntington's Disease, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's Disease, post-stroke, spinal cord injury.

>>NCT00403507
The purpose of the study is to determine if participation in an exercise program helps memory loss from getting worse and if it improves daily functioning and attitudes of those with probable Alzheimer's disease. It will involve participation of both the person with memory loss and someone who knows their daily activities (e.g., husband, wife, adult child or caregiver). The purpose of the study is to determine if participation in an exercise program helps memory loss from getting worse and if it improves daily functioning and attitudes of those with probable Alzheimer's disease. It will involve participation of both the person with memory loss and someone who knows their daily activities (e.g., husband, wife, adult child or caregiver).

>>NCT01000038
Purpose of the study: Falls in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) are common and lead to fractures, acute hospitalizations and increased rate of institutionalization. Poor balance and gait abnormalities, commonly associated with AD, are risk factors for falls. Improving balance and gait abnormalities is critical to prevent falls in AD.
 Exercise interventions improve gait and balance in elderly. Walking is the most commonly recommended home-based exercise program for elderly by primary care providers. However, it is difficult to engage patients with AD in long term exercise programs. Barriers to exercise programs include lack of motivation, poor engagement and external factors such as the cost of physical therapy (PT). Use of readily available technology might bridge this gap by providing high level of engagement via use of multimedia at an affordable price.
 Wii-Fit is a Nintendo gaming console used for aerobics, strength training and balance activities. This device includes a balance board that senses weight, movement and balance. Wii-Fit is a TV based self-directed activity not limited by the constraint of a therapist's presence. Virtual trainers talk the user through the activity while tracking progress. Furthermore, visual and auditory feedback improves engagement. Some skilled nursing facilities have started using the Wii-Fit as an adjunct to PT and note improvement in balance along with social benefits but no systematic studies are done to generalize the findings.
 The investigators propose an 8 week prospective randomized study with the treatment group receiving the exercise program delivered by Wii-Fit system and the comparison arm receiving a walking exercise program.

>>NCT00073658
This study will compare the safety and effectiveness two medications, citalopram (Celexa) and risperidone (Risperdal). This study will compare the safety and effectiveness two medications, citalopram (Celexa) and risperidone (Risperdal).

>>NCT00239759
The goal of MIRAGE is to evaluate the association of genetic and non-genetic risk factors for Alzheimer's Disease. The goal of MIRAGE is to evaluate the association of genetic and non-genetic risk factors for Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00855868
This study will evaluate the performance characteristics of a novel [18F] amyloid detection ligand (18F]-AV-45) with respect to its ability to distinguish patients with clinically-diagnosed probable Alzheimer's disease from cognitively normal elderly subjects and to independently compare its diagnostic performance characteristics with the ability of [11C]PIB to correctly categorize the same subjects.
 SPECIFIC HYPOTHESES.
 1. Individuals with a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease will have increased brain retention of [18F]-AV-45 compared to cognitively normal elderly individuals.
 2. There will be no clinically meaningful difference in the amyloid retention performance characteristics of [18F]-AV-45 and [l1C]PIB. This study will evaluate the performance characteristics of a novel [18F] amyloid detection ligand (18F]-AV-45) with respect to its ability to distinguish patients with clinically-diagnosed probable Alzheimer's disease from cognitively normal elderly subjects and to independently compare its diagnostic performance characteristics with the ability of [11C]PIB to correctly categorize the same subjects.
 SPECIFIC HYPOTHESES.
 1. Individuals with a clinical diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease will have increased brain retention of [18F]-AV-45 compared to cognitively normal elderly individuals.
 2. There will be no clinically meaningful difference in the amyloid retention performance characteristics of [18F]-AV-45 and [l1C]PIB.

>>NCT00190372
The aim of the project is to demonstrate that a psycho-educational programme designed to support and train carers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients induces a significantly higher benefit than anticholinesterase drug treatment alone or associated to memantine treatment. This training programme focuses on the explanation/description of behavioral, cognitive and functional disorders induced by the disease, as well as principles of cognitive and psycho-social stimulation of the patients in daily life. The aim of the project is to demonstrate that a psycho-educational programme designed to support and train carers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients induces a significantly higher benefit than anticholinesterase drug treatment alone or associated to memantine treatment. This training programme focuses on the explanation/description of behavioral, cognitive and functional disorders induced by the disease, as well as principles of cognitive and psycho-social stimulation of the patients in daily life.

>>NCT01723553
The study is designed to assess the demographic, clinical and imaging associations with the presence of microbleeds in atypical Alzheimer's disease. The primary hypothesis is that cognitive and functional performance will be poorer in atypical Alzheimer's subjects with microbleeds compared to those without microbleeds. The study is designed to assess the demographic, clinical and imaging associations with the presence of microbleeds in atypical Alzheimer's disease. The primary hypothesis is that cognitive and functional performance will be poorer in atypical Alzheimer's subjects with microbleeds compared to those without microbleeds.

>>NCT00874783
Human fibroblasts and possibly other human somatic cells may be reprogrammed into induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells by the forced expression of transcription factors (1-5). The iPS cells seem to share many properties with human embryonic stem cells.
 Induced pluripotent stem cells potentially may be useful in the future as an unlimited source of cells for transplantation.
 The major goal of the project is to develop human iPS cells from cell cultures from skin biopsies or the patient's hair. The iPS cells will be developed primarily for modeling diseases and drug discovery as well as basic research and for developing the technology that may eventually allow the use of iPS cells for future transplantation therapy. The iPS cells developed in the course of this application are not intended for use in transplantation therapy. Future development of iPS cells for clinical transplantation therapies will be subjected to the appropriate authorization by ethical and regulatory committees. Human fibroblasts and possibly other human somatic cells may be reprogrammed into induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells by the forced expression of transcription factors (1-5). The iPS cells seem to share many properties with human embryonic stem cells.
 Induced pluripotent stem cells potentially may be useful in the future as an unlimited source of cells for transplantation.
 The major goal of the project is to develop human iPS cells from cell cultures from skin biopsies or the patient's hair. The iPS cells will be developed primarily for modeling diseases and drug discovery as well as basic research and for developing the technology that may eventually allow the use of iPS cells for future transplantation therapy. The iPS cells developed in the course of this application are not intended for use in transplantation therapy. Future development of iPS cells for clinical transplantation therapies will be subjected to the appropriate authorization by ethical and regulatory committees.

>>NCT00515333
The primary objective of the study is to investigate the effects of oral TRx0014 at three doses (30, 60 and 100 mg tid) compared with placebo on cognitive ability in patients with mild or moderate dementia of the Alzheimer type. Cognitive ability will be measured by the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale - cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog). The primary evaluation will be made at 24 weeks.

>>NCT02085265
The purpose of this project is to conduct a proof of concept study in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease who have mild to moderate hypertension, in order to determine if there is less global brain atrophy over one year, as measured by ventricular enlargement as a primary outcome measure, when patients are randomized to treatment with an angiotensin receptor blocker compared to an Angiotensin Converting Enzyme inhibitor (ACEI). The purpose of this project is to conduct a proof of concept study in patients with probable Alzheimer's Disease who have mild to moderate hypertension, in order to determine if there is less global brain atrophy over one year, as measured by ventricular enlargement as a primary outcome measure, when patients are randomized to treatment with an angiotensin receptor blocker compared to an Angiotensin Converting Enzyme inhibitor (ACEI).

>>NCT01548053
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related forms of dementia currently affect over 400000 individuals in Canada and the numbers of community dwelling older adults with AD is rapidly growing. AD is associated with over $15 billion annually in care costs. Most individuals with AD are under the care of primary care providers (PCPs) including family physicians and primary care nurses. The evaluation and management of AD is challenging for PCPs and the quality of care provided to older adults with AD by PCP could be improved which would optimize outcomes for this vulnerable population. Provision of quality care to older adults with AD involves implementation of best practices as outlined in guidelines such as the Canadian Consensus Conference Guidelines on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Dementia. Utilizing a group of dementia researchers, PCPs, other knowledge users and individuals affected by AD, this project will develop practical, clinically relevant resources for primary care physicians and nurses to aid in the evaluation of older adults with AD. A knowledge tool, the Primary Care - Dementia Assessment and Treatment Algorithm (DATA Tool) will be introduced into several primary care settings in Ontario using educational sessions with PCP with additional support from internet resource and a dementia care manager. The quality of dementia care provided to older adults newly diagnosed with AD will be assessed in the three years preceding the intervention compared to the year following the implementation. This project will also describe the process of knowledge exchange with PCPs, including potential barriers and facilitators of knowledge uptake and examine if the care provided during the intervention was patient-centred through interviews with patients and caregivers.
 Research Objectives:.
 1. Develop knowledge tools to facilitate assessment and treatment of AD by PCPs based on best evidence;.
 2. Transfer these knowledge tools into a variety of primary care settings in Ontario; and,.
 3. Evaluate the effects of this intervention on dementia quality of care, PCP application of knowledge and the patient-centeredness of care.

>>NCT01607476
The intent of this research protocol is to test the equivalency of two amyloid imaging drugs (C11 Pittsburgh Compound B and F18 Flutemetamol). The investigators hypothesize that there will be no significant difference in the distribution of the agents to areas of amyloid deposition in the brain or to other normal brain structures. Recent data have shown similarity in the distribution of the drugs in subjects with AD or mild cognitive impairment (MCI). No comparison data of the two PET drugs in normal subjects has been published. It is important to understand differences in the images and biodistribution from the two drugs in normal subjects as nonspecific accumulation of the drugs in brain structures such as white matter appear to differ slightly and could affect image performance.
 The current clinical functional imaging standard for patients with indeterminate cognitive impairment is FDG PET. To allow a comparison of the PET amyloid imaging compounds with FDG PET, FDG PET scans will also be important to acquire in the subjects for comparison. The intent of this research protocol is to test the equivalency of two amyloid imaging drugs (C11 Pittsburgh Compound B and F18 Flutemetamol). The investigators hypothesize that there will be no significant difference in the distribution of the agents to areas of amyloid deposition in the brain or to other normal brain structures. Recent data have shown similarity in the distribution of the drugs in subjects with AD or mild cognitive impairment (MCI). No comparison data of the two PET drugs in normal subjects has been published. It is important to understand differences in the images and biodistribution from the two drugs in normal subjects as nonspecific accumulation of the drugs in brain structures such as white matter appear to differ slightly and could affect image performance.
 The current clinical functional imaging standard for patients with indeterminate cognitive impairment is FDG PET. To allow a comparison of the PET amyloid imaging compounds with FDG PET, FDG PET scans will also be important to acquire in the subjects for comparison.

>>NCT02537626
This study evaluates the effect of applying low level laser light therapy to individuals with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease to see if it may improve their memory, thinking and behaviors. Half of the participants will receive the real treatment with the laser device and the other half of the participants will receive a placebo treatment (not active laser). This study evaluates the effect of applying low level laser light therapy to individuals with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease to see if it may improve their memory, thinking and behaviors. Half of the participants will receive the real treatment with the laser device and the other half of the participants will receive a placebo treatment (not active laser).

>>NCT01095744
The first objective is to asses influence of age on amyloid load measured by PET imaging using Pittsburgh B compound (PiB) radio-tracer, in Alzheimer's disease(AD). This will allow the determination of brains age-specific deterioration factors by comparing Early onset AD (EOAD), Late onset AD (LOAD)and atypical focal cortical AD (PCA and LPA). The amount of brain lesions in AD patients is estimated by:.
 1. measuring the rate of cortical brain atrophy,.
 2. FDG imaging of glucose metabolism reflecting neuronal activity, and.
 3. for patients who benefited from a lumbar puncture; Cortical-spinal fluid (CSF) amounts of amylod and tau proteins are measured. The first objective is to asses influence of age on amyloid load measured by PET imaging using Pittsburgh B compound (PiB) radio-tracer, in Alzheimer's disease(AD). This will allow the determination of brains age-specific deterioration factors by comparing Early onset AD (EOAD), Late onset AD (LOAD)and atypical focal cortical AD (PCA and LPA). The amount of brain lesions in AD patients is estimated by:.
 1. measuring the rate of cortical brain atrophy,.
 2. FDG imaging of glucose metabolism reflecting neuronal activity, and.
 3. for patients who benefited from a lumbar puncture; Cortical-spinal fluid (CSF) amounts of amylod and tau proteins are measured.

>>NCT00259467
Specific Aims.
 1. Establish a preliminary effect size for the impact of the intervention on depressive affect and agitated behaviors in persons with dementia in 4 months.
 2. Evaluate acceptance of and engagement in activities in persons with dementia.
 3. Establish a preliminary effect size for the impact of the intervention on caregiver burden, depressive symptoms and mastery at 4 months.
 4. Evaluate caregiver skills acquisition, acceptance of and compliance to intervention techniques.

>>NCT00478166
The purpose of this study is to use fMRI techniques to explore a certain part of the brain associated with Alzheimer's disease known as the posterior cingulate. Determining the functionality of this brain region may help us diagnose AD more accurately, thus allowing earlier treatment. The purpose of this study is to use fMRI techniques to explore a certain part of the brain associated with Alzheimer's disease known as the posterior cingulate. Determining the functionality of this brain region may help us diagnose AD more accurately, thus allowing earlier treatment.

>>NCT01094340
This is a 24-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effect of thalidomide and placebo on CSF (cerebral spinal fluid) and plasma biomarkers in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. This study will evaluate the effects of 24 weeks of treatment with Thalidomide on plasma biomarkers. This is a 24-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effect of thalidomide and placebo on CSF (cerebral spinal fluid) and plasma biomarkers in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. This study will evaluate the effects of 24 weeks of treatment with Thalidomide on plasma biomarkers.

>>NCT02197884
The purpose of this study is to assess the effects of strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inhibitors (Itraconazole and Clarithromycin), on pharmacokinetics (PK) (study of the way a drug enters and leaves the blood and tissues over time) of single dose of JNJ-54861911 in healthy male participants. The purpose of this study is to assess the effects of strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inhibitors (Itraconazole and Clarithromycin), on pharmacokinetics (PK) (study of the way a drug enters and leaves the blood and tissues over time) of single dose of JNJ-54861911 in healthy male participants.

>>NCT02079909
The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of T-817MA as measured by ADAS-cog and ADCS-CGIC.
 The secondary objectives are:.
 - To evaluate the safety and tolerability of T-817MA measured by clinical safety laboratories, physical examinations, ECGs and solicitation of adverse events.
 - To evaluate the efficacy of T-817MA as measured by ADCS-ADL, FAQ, Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI) and Mini-mental State Examination (MMSE).

>>NCT00368459
This is a multisite pilot randomized trial of raloxifene or placebo for the treatment of women with Alzheimer's disease. This is a multisite pilot randomized trial of raloxifene or placebo for the treatment of women with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02439853
This is a study on Internet-based video-practice speech and language therapy for persons with primary progressive aphasia (PPA), Alzheimer's disease (AD), behavioral-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) or related conditions. This is a study on Internet-based video-practice speech and language therapy for persons with primary progressive aphasia (PPA), Alzheimer's disease (AD), behavioral-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) or related conditions.

>>NCT02690896
The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of support group intervention for primary caregivers of a person with dementia or similar cognitive impairment. The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of support group intervention for primary caregivers of a person with dementia or similar cognitive impairment.

>>NCT00703430
Alzheimer's disease (AD), is associated with behavioral disturbances in approximately 50% of AD patients in Beijing. Agitation and aggression specifically, is considered the most serious noncognitive symptom experienced in patients with dementia. Memantine is a recognized treatment for Alzheimer's disease either alone or in combination with cholinesterase inhibitors. Its efficacy in vascular dementia is also established. Family members continue to play a central role in home care for the demented elderly in China. This proposal is to conduct a study in Beijing, China to investigate the efficacy and safety of Memantine in the treatment of agitation and aggression in AD patients. In addition, this proposal aims to explore the impact of memantine on caregiver burden of AD patients in Chinese culture.

>>NCT00988598
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the safety of PF-04447943 when given in combination with donepezil in subjects who have Alzheimer's Disease. The study will also evaluate the absorption and distribution of both PF-04447943 and donepezil.

>>NCT01681602
Background: Current treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) is symptomatic and can only temporarily slow down progression.
 Exercise has the potential to improve cognition, psychological symptoms, physical performance and quality of life but evidence is scarce. Previous trials are short, often underpowered and involving home based light exercise programs. Most have included nursing homes residents with severe or undefined dementia. The aim of the ADEX trial is to establish whether exercise is effective in improving cognition, physical performance and quality of life as well as reducing the prevalence of psychological symptoms among AD patients.
 Methods: The ADEX Trial is a multicentre, single-blind, randomized clinical trial. Based on power calculations the investigators plan to recruit 192 home-dwelling patients aged 50-90 years with mild to moderate AD. The participants will be randomly allocated into two groups: An intervention group attending 16 weeks of continuously supervised moderate aerobic exercise 1 hour three times a week and a control group only receiving usual care. The hypothesis is that aerobic exercise will improve physical function, the cognitive and daily functioning and quality of life in people with mild to moderate AS.
 Blood sampling will be performed in all subjects to examine effects on biomarkers. A subgroup of the patients will also undergo MRI, PiB-PET and lumbar puncture to investigate structural changes and -amyloid accumulation.
 Further, a health-economic analysis will be performed.
 Recruitment was started in January 2012. Last study visits are planned to be performed in January 2014 and results will be available in 2014. This RCT will contribute to evidence regarding the potential effects of a systematic program of physical exercise for patients with Alzheimer's disease. Background: Current treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) is symptomatic and can only temporarily slow down progression.
 Exercise has the potential to improve cognition, psychological symptoms, physical performance and quality of life but evidence is scarce. Previous trials are short, often underpowered and involving home based light exercise programs. Most have included nursing homes residents with severe or undefined dementia. The aim of the ADEX trial is to establish whether exercise is effective in improving cognition, physical performance and quality of life as well as reducing the prevalence of psychological symptoms among AD patients.
 Methods: The ADEX Trial is a multicentre, single-blind, randomized clinical trial. Based on power calculations the investigators plan to recruit 192 home-dwelling patients aged 50-90 years with mild to moderate AD. The participants will be randomly allocated into two groups: An intervention group attending 16 weeks of continuously supervised moderate aerobic exercise 1 hour three times a week and a control group only receiving usual care. The hypothesis is that aerobic exercise will improve physical function, the cognitive and daily functioning and quality of life in people with mild to moderate AS.
 Blood sampling will be performed in all subjects to examine effects on biomarkers. A subgroup of the patients will also undergo MRI, PiB-PET and lumbar puncture to investigate structural changes and -amyloid accumulation.
 Further, a health-economic analysis will be performed.
 Recruitment was started in January 2012. Last study visits are planned to be performed in January 2014 and results will be available in 2014. This RCT will contribute to evidence regarding the potential effects of a systematic program of physical exercise for patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00371059
We plan to evaluate the use of memantine in Alzheimer's disease to control agitation in the acute situation i.e under 12 weeks We plan to evaluate the use of memantine in Alzheimer's disease to control agitation in the acute situation i.e under 12 weeks.

>>NCT00151398
The purpose of this study is determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of 3 doses of lecozotan SR in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease over 12 weeks.

>>NCT00975481
Dimebon will not exhibit abuse potential when compared to placebo or a positive control (alprazolam). Dimebon will not exhibit abuse potential when compared to placebo or a positive control (alprazolam).

>>NCT00203320
It is widely believed that inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of AD. TNF has been implicated in both AD and neurological inflammation. Anti-TNF therapy is therefore surmised to be of potential benefit for treating AD. It is widely believed that inflammation contributes to the pathogenesis of AD. TNF has been implicated in both AD and neurological inflammation. Anti-TNF therapy is therefore surmised to be of potential benefit for treating AD.

>>NCT00551161
We are studying subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who have been on a stable dose of any cholinesterase inhibitor [donepezil (Aricept), rivastigmine (Exelon) or galantamine (Razadyne)] for at least 3 months and have not previously taken memantine (Namenda). This is an open-label study, with magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) as the primary outcome measure, along with neuropsychological testing and optional lumbar puncture, evaluating patients on their stable dose of a cholinesterase inhibitor over 24 weeks, followed by another 24 weeks on memantine in combination with stable dose of cholinesterase inhibitor. The purpose of this study is to characterize the progression of disease using MRS, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers and cognitive outcome measures and to determine whether changes in cognitive function on neuropsychological testing are correlated to changes in MR spectroscopic and/or CSF biomarkers. We are studying subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who have been on a stable dose of any cholinesterase inhibitor [donepezil (Aricept), rivastigmine (Exelon) or galantamine (Razadyne)] for at least 3 months and have not previously taken memantine (Namenda). This is an open-label study, with magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) as the primary outcome measure, along with neuropsychological testing and optional lumbar puncture, evaluating patients on their stable dose of a cholinesterase inhibitor over 24 weeks, followed by another 24 weeks on memantine in combination with stable dose of cholinesterase inhibitor. The purpose of this study is to characterize the progression of disease using MRS, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers and cognitive outcome measures and to determine whether changes in cognitive function on neuropsychological testing are correlated to changes in MR spectroscopic and/or CSF biomarkers.

>>NCT00954590
The purpose of this study is to determine if Dimebon is safe and effective in patients with moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02518243
All over the world the increasing prevalence of chronic disorders and its impact on functional decline is challenging the sustainability of health care systems. Older individuals also frequently experience the reversible "frailty syndrome", which overlaps with chronic diseases, increasing incidence of disability.
 Building a global system aiming to take in charge all causes leading to loss of autonomy is a rather complicated task involving numerous Information and Communication technologies (ICT) solutions which are not always easy to use in everyday life.
 The SafEE (Safe Easy Environment) project aim is to improve the safety, autonomy and quality of life of older people at risk.
 The SafEE2 project develop non pharmacological therapeutic through diferent ICT (stimulation aromatherapy automatic fragrance ...) .
 The goal of this study is to validate the acceptability, sensitivity and efficacy of the systems. All over the world the increasing prevalence of chronic disorders and its impact on functional decline is challenging the sustainability of health care systems. Older individuals also frequently experience the reversible "frailty syndrome", which overlaps with chronic diseases, increasing incidence of disability.
 Building a global system aiming to take in charge all causes leading to loss of autonomy is a rather complicated task involving numerous Information and Communication technologies (ICT) solutions which are not always easy to use in everyday life.
 The SafEE (Safe Easy Environment) project aim is to improve the safety, autonomy and quality of life of older people at risk.
 The SafEE2 project develop non pharmacological therapeutic through diferent ICT (stimulation aromatherapy automatic fragrance ...) .
 The goal of this study is to validate the acceptability, sensitivity and efficacy of the systems.

>>NCT00884533
This study is a randomised double blind, parallel group and will evaluate the effects of repeat oral doses of RSG- XR for 21 days on the QTc interval compared to placebo in a population of healthy adult males and females. This study is a randomised double blind, parallel group and will evaluate the effects of repeat oral doses of RSG- XR for 21 days on the QTc interval compared to placebo in a population of healthy adult males and females.

>>NCT01005862
The primary goal of this study is to evaluate the effect of PF-04360365 on the clearance of ABETA from the CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease and healthy volunteers. Additionally, the study will assess the pharmacokinetics of PF-04360365, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationships in plasma and CSF and the safety and tolerability of single doses of PF-04360365 administered to patients with Alzheimer's disease and healthy volunteers.

>>NCT02142777
The purpose of this study is to determine if S-equol could benefit persons with Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine if S-equol could benefit persons with Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT00555204
The purpose of this study is to test if the investigational medication ABT-089 is a safe and effective treatment for Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00417482
In patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) who respond to antipsychotic treatment of psychosis and/or agitation/aggression, the relapse risk after discontinuation is not established. AD patients with psychosis and/or agitation/aggression receive 16 weeks of open risperidone treatment (Phase A). Responders are then randomized, double-blind, to one of three arms in Phase B: (1) continuation risperidone for 32 weeks, (2) risperidone for 16 weeks followed by placebo for 16 weeks, (3) placebo for 32 weeks. The primary outcome is time to relapse of psychosis/agitation. In patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) who respond to antipsychotic treatment of psychosis and/or agitation/aggression, the relapse risk after discontinuation is not established. AD patients with psychosis and/or agitation/aggression receive 16 weeks of open risperidone treatment (Phase A). Responders are then randomized, double-blind, to one of three arms in Phase B: (1) continuation risperidone for 32 weeks, (2) risperidone for 16 weeks followed by placebo for 16 weeks, (3) placebo for 32 weeks. The primary outcome is time to relapse of psychosis/agitation.

>>NCT01969123
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 2 fixed doses of EVP-6124 compared to placebo for 26 weeks in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease currently receiving stable treatment or previously treated with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor.

>>NCT02537496
In this study the investigators aim at assessing and then enhancing neuroplasticity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and working memory - a key function of DLPFC - in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). The investigators will use Paired Associative Stimulation (PAS) paradigm to measure neuroplasticity and then a 4-week course of high-frequency repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) to the DLPFC to enhance cognitive function. Clinical and cognitive assessments will be done at baseline, one week, one month and 6 months after the rTMS course. Healthy controls will also be enrolled to carry out baseline cognitive assessments and a baseline measurement of neuroplasticity. In this study the investigators aim at assessing and then enhancing neuroplasticity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and working memory - a key function of DLPFC - in patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). The investigators will use Paired Associative Stimulation (PAS) paradigm to measure neuroplasticity and then a 4-week course of high-frequency repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) to the DLPFC to enhance cognitive function. Clinical and cognitive assessments will be done at baseline, one week, one month and 6 months after the rTMS course. Healthy controls will also be enrolled to carry out baseline cognitive assessments and a baseline measurement of neuroplasticity.

>>NCT01002079
The purpose of the study is to determine if the concomitant administration of rifampin with BMS-708163 will affect the Pharmacokinetics of BMS-708163 and to assess safety and tolerability of co-administration BMS-708163 and rifampin.

>>NCT02623764
Drug treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors is indicated for treatment of Alzheimers disease and in most cases, one of these drugs is prescribed as soon as the diagnosis has been made. Nevertheless, it has been shown in several studies that up to 30% of patients do not benefit from treatment. These drugs can have side effects, most frequently from the gastrointestinal tract with nausea, diarrhea and discomfort in the abdomen as the most frequent signs. It is therefore important to know before the treatment is initiated if the patient will likely benefit from the drug or not. It is not possible today with current knowledge but this project aims to evaluate a specific index, calculated from an EEG registration (the EEG-cholinergic index) for this purpose. A conventional EEG registration is done before treatment and the cholinergic index calculated from the EEG registration is compared to the clinical outcome. The duration of follow up is 6 months with an extension of further 6 months. Drug treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors is indicated for treatment of Alzheimers disease and in most cases, one of these drugs is prescribed as soon as the diagnosis has been made. Nevertheless, it has been shown in several studies that up to 30% of patients do not benefit from treatment. These drugs can have side effects, most frequently from the gastrointestinal tract with nausea, diarrhea and discomfort in the abdomen as the most frequent signs. It is therefore important to know before the treatment is initiated if the patient will likely benefit from the drug or not. It is not possible today with current knowledge but this project aims to evaluate a specific index, calculated from an EEG registration (the EEG-cholinergic index) for this purpose. A conventional EEG registration is done before treatment and the cholinergic index calculated from the EEG registration is compared to the clinical outcome. The duration of follow up is 6 months with an extension of further 6 months.

>>NCT01038726
The purpose of this study is to gain a better understanding of the effects of exercise and cognitive training on improving brain function in healthy older adults who may be at risk for developing Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00939783
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of Dimebon in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of Dimebon in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00831506
This study has been designed to confirm, in healthy subjects, the lack of a clinically important pharmacokinetic interaction between Dimebon, at the proposed maximum commercial dose of 20 mg TID (administered every 8 hours) and digoxin (Lanoxin) 0.125 mg QD, a sensitive P-gp substrate recommended by FDA.

>>NCT00955409
The purpose of this study is to assess the long term safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of ACC-001, an investigational active immunization product+, in subjects with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00063310
ALADDIN is a research study to investigate the safety and effectiveness of leuprolide (a hormone drug) to improve the cognitive function and slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In women leuprolide is commonly used to treat hormone related conditions such as endometriosis and uterine fibroids. The study will include treatment of women 65 years and older with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who reside in the community. ALADDIN is a research study to investigate the safety and effectiveness of leuprolide (a hormone drug) to improve the cognitive function and slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In women leuprolide is commonly used to treat hormone related conditions such as endometriosis and uterine fibroids. The study will include treatment of women 65 years and older with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease who reside in the community.

>>NCT00414622
A Double Blind, Placebo-Controlled Randomized Study to Compare the Safety and Tolerability of GTS-21 (25 Mg TID, 50 Mg TID, 75 Mg TID and 150 Mg TID) When Administered Daily for 28 Days to Participants With Probable Alzheimers Disease A Double Blind, Placebo-Controlled Randomized Study to Compare the Safety and Tolerability of GTS-21 (25 Mg TID, 50 Mg TID, 75 Mg TID and 150 Mg TID) When Administered Daily for 28 Days to Participants With Probable Alzheimers Disease.

>>NCT02615002
This study is a Phase 2, randomized, placebo controlled, dose ranging study of piromelatine (5, 20 and 50 mg daily for 6 months) versus placebo to determine an effective dose based on efficacy (cognitive performance), safety and tolerability in patients with mild dementia due to AD.

>>NCT01656525
Objective of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and preliminary pharmacodynamic effects of multiple doses of Gantenerumab in subject with mild to moderate AD.

>>NCT00385684
The purpose of this study was to determine whether a low dose an opiate pain medication is effective for the treatment of discomfort in patients with advanced dementia. The study medication was also known as Lortab and contained both a narcotic pain medication and acetaminophen (the same pain medication as contained in Tylenol). This study was an eight-week long clinical trial for discomfort among veterans with advanced dementia who were admitted to a Nursing Home Care Unit (NHCU) at the Tuscaloosa VA Medical Center. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a low dose an opiate pain medication is effective for the treatment of discomfort in patients with advanced dementia. The study medication was also known as Lortab and contained both a narcotic pain medication and acetaminophen (the same pain medication as contained in Tylenol). This study was an eight-week long clinical trial for discomfort among veterans with advanced dementia who were admitted to a Nursing Home Care Unit (NHCU) at the Tuscaloosa VA Medical Center.

>>NCT01555827
A few studies suggest that patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases (such a multiple sclerosis or Alzheimer's disease (AD) show decreased thickness of the retinal nerve fiber layer (RNFL), indicating axonal degeneration. High-definition spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), performed without radiation in a few seconds per eye, offers a precise and standardized estimation of this parameter, which could constitute a biomarker for cerebral axonal degeneration. These RNFL deficits might even be the earliest sign of AD, prior to damage of the hippocampal region that impacts memory.
 Besides, some associations of AD with some degenerative diseases of the eye (glaucoma, microvascular abnormalities, age-related macular degeneration (AMD) have also been reported.
 It therefore seems interesting to determine whether RNFL thickness and other ocular parameters, may give some indications for a better detection of AD and cognitive decline in the elderly.

>>NCT00843115
To characterize the comorbidities and medications of patients treated with donepezil in a routine clinical practice and to verify the therapeutic response of these patients. To characterize the comorbidities and medications of patients treated with donepezil in a routine clinical practice and to verify the therapeutic response of these patients.

>>NCT02843906
The purpose of this study is to identify association between cerebrospinal fluid Alzheimer's Disease's neurodegenerescence biomarkers (tau, ptau, A40 and A1-42) and occurrence of cognitive deficits in older patients with bipolar disorders.

>>NCT00470418
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NIC5-15in the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NIC5-15in the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT00866060
The trial will examine whether pharmacological treatment with donepezil, memantine or combination of memantine and donepezil is any better than a placebo (dummy) treatment in people with Alzheimer's disease who have reached the moderate to severe stage of illness. Using a double blind design, where neither the investigators nor participants know who is receiving which treatment, participants will be randomly assigned to one of these four treatment groups (donepezil and memantine, memantine only, donepezil only or placebo). In order to keep both the investigators and participants blind to drug allocation a double dummy design will be necessary. This means that each participant will receive 2 treatments  either an active form or placebo of each of the 2 study drugs.
 Hypotheses are:.
 1. Patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) who continue donepezil beyond the point of transition from moderate to severe dementia continue to show significantly less decline on ratings of cognitive function and activities of daily living over the following 12 months than those discontinuing donepezil.
 2. Patients with AD who change to memantine therapy in place of donepezil at the point of transition from moderate to severe dementia show significantly smaller decline on ratings of cognitive function and activities of daily living over the following 12 months than those who receive placebo.
 3. Patients given the combination of memantine and donepezil at the point of transition from moderate to severe dementia show significant additive or synergistic benefits on measures of activities of daily living and cognitive function after 12 months compared to those patients continuing on either drug as a single treatment. The trial will examine whether pharmacological treatment with donepezil, memantine or combination of memantine and donepezil is any better than a placebo (dummy) treatment in people with Alzheimer's disease who have reached the moderate to severe stage of illness. Using a double blind design, where neither the investigators nor participants know who is receiving which treatment, participants will be randomly assigned to one of these four treatment groups (donepezil and memantine, memantine only, donepezil only or placebo). In order to keep both the investigators and participants blind to drug allocation a double dummy design will be necessary. This means that each participant will receive 2 treatments  either an active form or placebo of each of the 2 study drugs.
 Hypotheses are:.
 1. Patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) who continue donepezil beyond the point of transition from moderate to severe dementia continue to show significantly less decline on ratings of cognitive function and activities of daily living over the following 12 months than those discontinuing donepezil.
 2. Patients with AD who change to memantine therapy in place of donepezil at the point of transition from moderate to severe dementia show significantly smaller decline on ratings of cognitive function and activities of daily living over the following 12 months than those who receive placebo.
 3. Patients given the combination of memantine and donepezil at the point of transition from moderate to severe dementia show significant additive or synergistic benefits on measures of activities of daily living and cognitive function after 12 months compared to those patients continuing on either drug as a single treatment.

>>NCT00902499
The purpose of this study is to begin the process of validating fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) as a biomarker for use in clinical trials and longitudinal studies of clinical progression in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to begin the process of validating fMRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) as a biomarker for use in clinical trials and longitudinal studies of clinical progression in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT02035553
This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of pimavanserin 40 mg compared to placebo in patients with Alzheimer's disease psychosis.

>>NCT01129115
This is a randomized, 26-week study of supervised exercise assessing three doses of exercise in sedentary individuals 65 years of age and over with age-related cognitive changes. A total of 100 subjects (n=25 in each of four groups) will be randomized to a non-aerobic control group, 75 minutes, 150 minutes or 225 minutes a week of moderate intensity aerobic exercise spread over 3 to 5 days a week for 26 weeks. These exercise doses represent 50%, 100% or 150% of the recommended exercise dose. Participants will be directly supervised during all exercise sessions for the first two months after which direct supervision will occur during at least one session a week. This is intended to provide increased flexibility while also maintaining direct contact with the participant to enhance adherence. Aerobic fitness, physical function and cognition will be assessed at baseline and 26 weeks to examine the dose-response relationships.

>>NCT02263235
In France, an estimated 860 000 patients are affected by Alzheimer Disease (AD) which represents, as in other developed countries, a major public health issue. In many cases, AD diagnosis is uncertain and its clinical evolution unpredictable. The exactitude of the diagnosis is however particularly important in the perspective of the validation and use of new therapeutic strategies in AD. Detection of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diagnosis biomarkers fell short in the detection, of atypical/mixed cases, of some differential diagnosis and in differentiating rapid or slow clinical evolutions. Hence, CSF analysis gives a unique opportunity to detect and validate biomarkers in many neurological disorders. Nevertheless, in medical practice, CSF biological analysis is currently limited to a small number of analytes.Quantitative and targeted mass spectrometry, especially operated in the Multiple reaction monitoring mode (MRM), represents an alternative to immunodetection and could be used to detect specific biomarkers in complex matrices such as plasma by specifically discriminating the proteotypic peptides corresponding to each proteins. Mass spectrometry has also the ability to distinguish and quantify isotopically labelled and unlabeled selected targets. This ability was used in a publication by the group of R. Bateman (Washington University, St Louis, USA) who could, after administering stable isotope-labelled leucine, evaluate Ab synthesis and clearance in humans. This approach has an enormous potential to study the metabolism of proteins within the human CNS and consequently help in the understanding and diagnosis of neurological disorders.The main objective of this program is set up a targeted quantitative mass spectrometry method for existing and stable isotope-labelled CSF biomarkers in the neurological field; exploit this approach for diagnostic purpurses and to gain knowledge in the pathophysiology of diseases.

>>NCT02488720
The LEARN study a multicenter, observational study will that will evaluate the rate of cognitive change in approximately 500 clinically normal older individuals who "screen-fail" for the A4 trial on the basis of their screening PET imaging not demonstrating evidence of elevated amyloid accumulation (A negative) but meet all other A4 study eligibility criteria. This study will leverage the A4 infrastructure and maximize the data acquired in screening a large number of well-characterized older adults for the A4 trial.
 The LEARN observational cohort will provide a critical comparison group for the A4 placebo arm and future trials in preclinical AD. Although accumulating longitudinal data suggest that older individuals with elevated A burden are at increased risk of cognitive decline, it is important to demonstrate a differential rate of clinical decline between Ae ("A elevated") and Ane ("A not elevated") individuals on a standardized set of clinical outcomes. Over 2000 well-characterized, highly motivated older volunteers will "screen fail" for the A4 trial. The LEARN study will follow 500 of these individuals, matched as closely as possible to the two treatment arms, in this observation cohort. The LEARN study may selectively recruit from a specific range of SUVr that fall below the threshold for "elevated amyloid" in order to support analyses of the relationship of baseline SUVr to subsequent cognitive change and amyloid accumulation. The observational cohort will be followed for 168 weeks with identical clinical/cognitive testing performed every 24 weeks, running parallel to the A4 treatment study.

>>NCT00046358
The purpose of this study is to determine whether short-term use of the drugs ibuprofen and lovastatin affects levels of a protein called beta-amyloid in people who are at risk for developing Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to determine whether short-term use of the drugs ibuprofen and lovastatin affects levels of a protein called beta-amyloid in people who are at risk for developing Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT01117818
This is a multiple vaccination study to find out if it is a safe treatment and what effects it has on the symptoms of early Alzheimer's disease in male and female patients aged 50 to 80 years. Approximately 40 study sites in Europe will be involved. Patients will be randomized to receive either AFFITOPE AD02 or placebo. Each patient's participation will last 1 year. This is a multiple vaccination study to find out if it is a safe treatment and what effects it has on the symptoms of early Alzheimer's disease in male and female patients aged 50 to 80 years. Approximately 40 study sites in Europe will be involved. Patients will be randomized to receive either AFFITOPE AD02 or placebo. Each patient's participation will last 1 year.

>>NCT01775696
The main objective of this study is to investigate the central and peripheral inflammatory, as well as the spontaneous A-specific, immune responses at the asymptomatic stage and early stages of AD by combining molecular imaging techniques with blood biomarker analyses. The early and preclinical stages of AD will be studied in the relatives of patients with PSEN1, PSEN2 or APP mutations that are at-risk (50%) to be mutation carriers. This study will evaluate the contribution of Inflammatory and immune anti-A responses (I2ARs) in AD progression. Inclusion of sporadic and familial forms of AD will aid in studying the chronology of pathological events. Clinical follow-ups will be conducted annually for two years and will include an MRI and a blood draw on the last visit. We expect I2ARs to appear in the early stages of the disease and to constitute new prognostic factors. I2ARs could also become therapeutic markers for the assessment of novel anti-amyloid treatments and may offer new insights to the development of A-specific immunotherapy strategies. The main objective of this study is to investigate the central and peripheral inflammatory, as well as the spontaneous A-specific, immune responses at the asymptomatic stage and early stages of AD by combining molecular imaging techniques with blood biomarker analyses. The early and preclinical stages of AD will be studied in the relatives of patients with PSEN1, PSEN2 or APP mutations that are at-risk (50%) to be mutation carriers. This study will evaluate the contribution of Inflammatory and immune anti-A responses (I2ARs) in AD progression. Inclusion of sporadic and familial forms of AD will aid in studying the chronology of pathological events. Clinical follow-ups will be conducted annually for two years and will include an MRI and a blood draw on the last visit. We expect I2ARs to appear in the early stages of the disease and to constitute new prognostic factors. I2ARs could also become therapeutic markers for the assessment of novel anti-amyloid treatments and may offer new insights to the development of A-specific immunotherapy strategies.

>>NCT02462161
This pilot clinical trial will examine the effects of intranasal insulin aspart on cognition, daily function, blood and CSF markers of Alzheimer's disease and amyloid deposition in the brain. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive insulin aspart or placebo during a 12-week treatment period. This pilot clinical trial will examine the effects of intranasal insulin aspart on cognition, daily function, blood and CSF markers of Alzheimer's disease and amyloid deposition in the brain. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive insulin aspart or placebo during a 12-week treatment period.

>>NCT01073228
This study is being conducted to determine the safety and effect on cognitive function of the investigational medication, EVP-6124, in individuals with mild to moderate probable Alzheimer's disease. This study is being conducted to determine the safety and effect on cognitive function of the investigational medication, EVP-6124, in individuals with mild to moderate probable Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00490568
This is a Phase III, multicenter, open-label extension, single-group study in male and female outpatients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) who have completed either AVA102670 or AVA102672. All subjects will receive rosiglitazone extended-release (RSG XR) 4mg once daily for the first 4 weeks of the study followed by 8mg RSG XR as adjunctive therapy to their existing dose of acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Subject participation will last until one of 5 conditions applies. After a 52-week open-label treatment phase, subjects will attend a final Follow-Up Visit 6 weeks after the end of treatment. The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of RSG XR in subjects with mild-to-moderate AD who have completed either AVA102670 or AVA102672. The secondary objective of this study is to explore further the long-term efficacy of RSG XR in terms of cognitive function and overall clinical response as a function of apolipoprotein E (APOE) e4 allele status.

>>NCT00829374
The purpose of this study is to determine if Dimebon is safe and effective in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease on Donepezil.

>>NCT00439166
This study will determine if biomarkers found in the cerebrospinal fluid of people with Alzheimer's disease, are affected by treatment with two common antibiotics, doxycycline and rifampicin, suggesting a disease-modifying effect of those treatments. This study will determine if biomarkers found in the cerebrospinal fluid of people with Alzheimer's disease, are affected by treatment with two common antibiotics, doxycycline and rifampicin, suggesting a disease-modifying effect of those treatments.

>>NCT01129596
The purpose of this study is to investigate the following about donepezil hydrochloride administration in patients with mild or moderate Alzheimer's Disease in clinical practice: cognitive function, Functional Assessment Staging (FAST) score, adverse events/adverse drug reactions and patient background.

>>NCT01978353
Preview research reports evidence of cognitive plasticity among individuals with amnestic Mild cognitive Impairment and small-size studies have suggest that this population can benefit from memory training. This project intends to assess the efficacy of cognitive training in persons with MCI with a randomized controlled design.
 The hypothesis is that cognitive training can improve memory performance for persons with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and this improvement can be maintained over time. Preview research reports evidence of cognitive plasticity among individuals with amnestic Mild cognitive Impairment and small-size studies have suggest that this population can benefit from memory training. This project intends to assess the efficacy of cognitive training in persons with MCI with a randomized controlled design.
 The hypothesis is that cognitive training can improve memory performance for persons with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and this improvement can be maintained over time.

>>NCT00018291
This study is aimed at investigating specific pharmacological interventions in the treatment of the disruptive, agitated behavior associated with Alzheimer's patients. In addition, it is hoped that specific clinical profiles will be found to predict which treatment is most effective for these particular patients. This study is aimed at investigating specific pharmacological interventions in the treatment of the disruptive, agitated behavior associated with Alzheimer's patients. In addition, it is hoped that specific clinical profiles will be found to predict which treatment is most effective for these particular patients.

>>NCT00224497
The purpose of this study is to find out if SB-742457 is a safe treatment and what effects it has on the symptoms of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. SB-742457 is a new treatment which is thought to increase the levels of certain chemicals in the brain that are often decreased in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00904683
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related degenerative disorder of the brain, characterized by progressive decline in cognitive function and ability to perform activities of daily living and ultimately can lead to death due to complications of the disease. AD is thought to be caused by an excess of A-Beta amyloid, a sticky protein in the brain that forms amyloid plaques. Treatments that slow the synthesis or deposition of A-Beta amyloid or that increase clearance, might be expected to slow the progression of AD.
 LY2062430 (solanezumab) is a humanized anti-A Beta peptide immunoglobulin G-1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody being developed for the treatment of AD. The primary hypothesis being tested is that LY2062430 will slow cognitive and functional decline in AD as compared with placebo. Each patient's participation will last approximately 19 months. Patients taking approved AD medications may participate in this study and continue taking these medications during the study.

>>NCT00021723
A multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled out-patient, safety, tolerability and pilot efficacy study of intramuscular AN-1792 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. A multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled out-patient, safety, tolerability and pilot efficacy study of intramuscular AN-1792 in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01638949
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major public health problem due to its socio-economic weight. An early diagnosis of AD is urgently needed as it would constitute a determinant breakthrough from a social, financial and research standpoints. Therefore, the investigators need predictive markers of AD and neuroimaging is a particularly promising tool, especially when using complementary neuroimaging techniques and a longitudinal design, allowing to assess the relationships between the different biomarkers of the disease, their dynamic and their chronology. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major public health problem due to its socio-economic weight. An early diagnosis of AD is urgently needed as it would constitute a determinant breakthrough from a social, financial and research standpoints. Therefore, the investigators need predictive markers of AD and neuroimaging is a particularly promising tool, especially when using complementary neuroimaging techniques and a longitudinal design, allowing to assess the relationships between the different biomarkers of the disease, their dynamic and their chronology.

>>NCT01962753
The primary objective of the study is to compare the brain amyloid load in fully, partially and non remitting depressed elderly patients at 8 weeks of antidepressant therapy, by using PET with [F18]AV45. The primary objective of the study is to compare the brain amyloid load in fully, partially and non remitting depressed elderly patients at 8 weeks of antidepressant therapy, by using PET with [F18]AV45.

>>NCT00018278
The main purpose of this study is to determine the electrophysiological effects of cholinergic therapy (cholinesterase inhibitors and transdermal nicotine) in Alzheimer disease. The attempt will be to locate electrophysiological markers and predictors of cognitive and clinical treatment response.

>>NCT02500784
The purpose of this study is to test the effects of long-term therapeutic doses of formoterol, on a) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau levels and Amyloid Beta protein 40 - 42 levels in the CSF and b) cognitive function in people with mild to moderate Alzheimer' Disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to test the effects of long-term therapeutic doses of formoterol, on a) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau levels and Amyloid Beta protein 40 - 42 levels in the CSF and b) cognitive function in people with mild to moderate Alzheimer' Disease (AD).

>>NCT00165100
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether this new method of taking pictures called Dynamic Area Telethermometry (DAT) might be a good way of looking at patients with cancer that is relatively close to the surface of the body. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether this new method of taking pictures called Dynamic Area Telethermometry (DAT) might be a good way of looking at patients with cancer that is relatively close to the surface of the body.

>>NCT02249351
Study to assess symptomatic efficacy, safety and tolerability of talsaclidine in patients with mild to moderate dementia of Alzheimer type.

>>NCT01819545
The miRNA 107 gene is increasingly appreciated to serve key functions in humans. The miRNA regulate gene expression involved in cell division, metabolism, stress response and angiogenesis in vertebrate species. But the relationship and diagnosis capability of miRNA 107 and BACE1 mRNA gene expression in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and normal control is still a mystery. The miRNA 107 gene is increasingly appreciated to serve key functions in humans. The miRNA regulate gene expression involved in cell division, metabolism, stress response and angiogenesis in vertebrate species. But the relationship and diagnosis capability of miRNA 107 and BACE1 mRNA gene expression in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and normal control is still a mystery.

>>NCT00742417
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plasma exchange with 5% albumin in beta-amyloid peptide clearance in cerebrospinal fluid and its effects in patients with mild-moderate Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of plasma exchange with 5% albumin in beta-amyloid peptide clearance in cerebrospinal fluid and its effects in patients with mild-moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02754830
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the study drug, LY3303560. Side effects and laboratory results will be monitored. This study will involve single doses of LY3303560 administered intravenously (IV), meaning into a vein or subcutaneously (SC), meaning under the skin.
 Screening is required within 28 days before the start of the study for healthy participants and within 42 days before the start of the study for AD participants. The study requires about 16 weeks of each participant's time including a 4 day clinical research unit (CRU) admission and 10 follow-up appointments.
 This is the first time that this study drug is being given to participants. This study is for research purposes only and is not intended to treat any medical condition.

>>NCT00059410
The TIPS Study or Treatment and Illness Perceptions Survey, is a study funded by the national Alzheimer's Association to learn more about differences between African Americans' and Whites' attitudes, beliefs and experiences related to Alzheimer's disease (AD). The study involves a one-time 30-minute telephone survey in which participants are asked about a range of topics related to AD, including their personal experiences, their beliefs about the disease's symptoms and risk factors and their attitude toward possible future treatment options. Information from the survey will be used to develop more culturally sensitive health education and healthcare services for persons with AD. The TIPS Study or Treatment and Illness Perceptions Survey, is a study funded by the national Alzheimer's Association to learn more about differences between African Americans' and Whites' attitudes, beliefs and experiences related to Alzheimer's disease (AD). The study involves a one-time 30-minute telephone survey in which participants are asked about a range of topics related to AD, including their personal experiences, their beliefs about the disease's symptoms and risk factors and their attitude toward possible future treatment options. Information from the survey will be used to develop more culturally sensitive health education and healthcare services for persons with AD.

>>NCT00739037
The primary purpose of this study is to assess biomarker known as amyloid beta peptide 40 (Ab40) in Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF), following a single oral dose of PAZ-417 in subjects with Alzheimer Disease (AD). This study will also consider another biomarker amyloid beta peptide 42 (Ab42) in Cerebrospinal Fluid in subjects with Alzheimer Disease and assess the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of PAZ-417 in both plasma and Cerebrospinal Fluid in these subjects.

>>NCT01695889
The purpose of this study is to compare exposure to general anesthesia between cases with a diagnosis of Alzheimers disease and controls without diagnosis, through studies of medical records. The investigators wish to explore if there is a relationship between exposure to general anesthesia and the development of Alzheimers disease.

>>NCT01812213
To investigate whether [18F]NAV4694 positron emission tomography (PET) scan findings have the ability to distinguish subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who progress to Alzheimer's disease (AD) from those who do not.

>>NCT01954550
This randomized controlled trial (RCT) will investigate the effects of a 6-month, individualized, moderate-intensity cycling intervention on cognition and hippocampal volume in AD with three aims:.
 - Determine the immediate effect of the cycling intervention on cognition in AD.
 - Examine if the cycling intervention slows cognitive decline in AD from baseline to 12 months.
 - Assess the effect of aerobic exercise on hippocampal volume in AD over 12 months using MRI.
 The investigators will randomize 90 participants to the 6-month cycling or stretching/range of motion exercise (20-50-minute, 3 times a week). Participants will then be followed for another 6 months. Cognition will be assessed at baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months and hippocampal volume will be measured using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline, 6 and 12 months. This randomized controlled trial (RCT) will investigate the effects of a 6-month, individualized, moderate-intensity cycling intervention on cognition and hippocampal volume in AD with three aims:.
 - Determine the immediate effect of the cycling intervention on cognition in AD.
 - Examine if the cycling intervention slows cognitive decline in AD from baseline to 12 months.
 - Assess the effect of aerobic exercise on hippocampal volume in AD over 12 months using MRI.
 The investigators will randomize 90 participants to the 6-month cycling or stretching/range of motion exercise (20-50-minute, 3 times a week). Participants will then be followed for another 6 months. Cognition will be assessed at baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months and hippocampal volume will be measured using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline, 6 and 12 months.

>>NCT00242593
The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of the insulin-sensitizing medication rosiglitazone on attention and memory skills in older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The study also will examine the effects of this medication on brain structures that support memory and other thinking abilities and on biological markers associated with inflammation, insulin resistance and cardiovascular disease. The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of the insulin-sensitizing medication rosiglitazone on attention and memory skills in older adults with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The study also will examine the effects of this medication on brain structures that support memory and other thinking abilities and on biological markers associated with inflammation, insulin resistance and cardiovascular disease.

>>NCT00672945
A randomized placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of PRX-03140 in subjects with Alzheimer's Disease receiving a stable dose of donepezil. The study consists of a 26-week double-blind treatment period.

>>NCT02063269
Butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) activity is increasing in Alzheimer Disease (AD) process (Lane et al., 2006). BuChE wild type has stronger butyrylcholine esterase activity than BuChE K variant allele and this strong activity can affect AD brain negatively by choline depletion. Rivastigmine has unique dual action - acetylcholine esterase inhibition and butyrylcholine esterase inhibition. Therefore, rivastigmine can lower serum butyrylcholine esterase activity and delay functional decrease of Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) images in AD patients with BuChE wild type allele by strong BuChE inhibition.
 It suggests that rivastigmine can affect brain function differently by BuChE genotype in AD. Therefore, we will try to find the different changes of serum butyrylcholine esterase activity by ELISA and functional and structural changes of brain between BuChE wild type and K-variant type by FDG PET and MRI pre and post images after 12 month use of rivastigmine.
 1. Primary objective:.
 1. the mean changes of Standardized Uptake Values (SUVmean) in PET imaging.
 2. the mean changes of serum BuChE activity between BuChE wild type and K-variant type.
 2. Secondary objectives:.
 1. the mean changes of cortical thickness in brain MRI.
 2. the cognitive changes in Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog).
 3. the cognitive changes in Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE).
 4. the daily function changes by Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study - Activities of Daily Living (ADCS-ADL).
 5. the behavioural changes by Caregiver-Administered Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI).
 6. the disease severity changes by Clinical Dementia Rating Scale-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) between BuChE wild type and K-variant type.

>>NCT02563483
This study evaluates the effects of the practice of yoga in combination with compassion meditation on the quality of life, attention, vitality and self-compassion of family caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease. This study evaluates the effects of the practice of yoga in combination with compassion meditation on the quality of life, attention, vitality and self-compassion of family caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02409082
The investigators explore the presence of AD factors beta-amyloid and tau in CSF and plasma to verify AD diagnosis in patients with acute hip fracture. Clinical dementia test is performed prior to operation. Blood samples and CSF samples are collected at surgery and blood samples are collected postoperatively at intervals. Mortality is assessed at 30 days, 3 months and 1 year. Morbidity is assessed at , 3 months and >1 year. Neuromarkers specifically addressing the inflammatory component are to be analyzed and correlated to outcome together with AD markers, as above. The investigators explore the presence of AD factors beta-amyloid and tau in CSF and plasma to verify AD diagnosis in patients with acute hip fracture. Clinical dementia test is performed prior to operation. Blood samples and CSF samples are collected at surgery and blood samples are collected postoperatively at intervals. Mortality is assessed at 30 days, 3 months and 1 year. Morbidity is assessed at , 3 months and >1 year. Neuromarkers specifically addressing the inflammatory component are to be analyzed and correlated to outcome together with AD markers, as above.

>>NCT02477800
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of monthly doses of aducanumab in slowing cognitive and functional impairment as measured by changes in the Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) score as compared with placebo in participants with early AD. Secondary objectives are to assess the effect of monthly doses of aducanumab as compared with placebo on clinical progression as measured by Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), AD Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (13 items) [ADAS-Cog 13] and AD Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living Inventory (Mild Cognitive Impairment version) [ADCS-ADL-MCI]. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of monthly doses of aducanumab in slowing cognitive and functional impairment as measured by changes in the Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) score as compared with placebo in participants with early AD. Secondary objectives are to assess the effect of monthly doses of aducanumab as compared with placebo on clinical progression as measured by Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), AD Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (13 items) [ADAS-Cog 13] and AD Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living Inventory (Mild Cognitive Impairment version) [ADCS-ADL-MCI].

>>NCT01119638
Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are among the most distressing manifestations of dementia. Pharmacotherapy is frequently used and especially in institutional settings. Current guidelines recommend the use of second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs). Nonetheless, there are concerns regarding both their safety and effectiveness in patients with dementia. Inconclusive evidence support the use of other psychoactive agents such as SSRI antidepressants or cognitive enhancers.
 In two published studies citalopram was as efficacious as but better tolerated than perphenazine or risperidone in patients with BPSD.
 Thus, with proven efficacy and a beneficial safety profile the evaluation of the use of escitalopram for BPSD is warranted. Behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) are among the most distressing manifestations of dementia. Pharmacotherapy is frequently used and especially in institutional settings. Current guidelines recommend the use of second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs). Nonetheless, there are concerns regarding both their safety and effectiveness in patients with dementia. Inconclusive evidence support the use of other psychoactive agents such as SSRI antidepressants or cognitive enhancers.
 In two published studies citalopram was as efficacious as but better tolerated than perphenazine or risperidone in patients with BPSD.
 Thus, with proven efficacy and a beneficial safety profile the evaluation of the use of escitalopram for BPSD is warranted.

>>NCT02129452
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the olfactory neuroepithelium as a biomarker of Alzheimer disease. The early diagnosis of Alzheimer disease is of importance for obtaining better response to treatment but recently reported biomarkers have some limitations. Olfactory neuroepithelium tissue which is accessible through office-based biopsy without difficulty is known to reflect brain pathology that confirms the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease. This study will help in the early detection and treatment of Alzheimer disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the olfactory neuroepithelium as a biomarker of Alzheimer disease. The early diagnosis of Alzheimer disease is of importance for obtaining better response to treatment but recently reported biomarkers have some limitations. Olfactory neuroepithelium tissue which is accessible through office-based biopsy without difficulty is known to reflect brain pathology that confirms the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease. This study will help in the early detection and treatment of Alzheimer disease.

>>NCT00749216
The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of multiple dosing Solanezumab in subjects with mild-to-moderate AD in Japanese population.

>>NCT02279511
To Check whether systemic treatment with ATP alters the profile of cerebral metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease using MRS techniques (Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy) and adjust the infusion (minimum effective dose) that promotes this metabolic change.

>>NCT00519298
Primary: To evaluate the pharmacologic effect of single doses of SAM-531 on sleep EEG in healthy subjects.

>>NCT01255163
Background:.
 - Exendin-4 (or Exenatide) is a medication currently used to treat diabetes but it has shown promising results in tests of its effectiveness in protecting neurons from damaging processes associated with Alzheimer s disease. It is possible that Exendin-4 may be a treatment for Alzheimer s disease, which involves the gradual deterioration and death of neurons. Researchers are interested in studying the safety and comparing the effects of Exendin-4 with placebo to on congestive performance, overall clinical progression, various chemicals measured in blood and cerebrospinal fluid and brain MRI, in individuals with early-stage Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment.
 Objectives:.
 - To determine the safety and tolerability, as well as to acquire preliminary evidence for the effectiveness of twice daily administration of Exendin-4 as a treatment for early-stage Alzheimer s disease or mild cognitive impairment.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals at least 60 years of age who have objective evidence of early-stage Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment in screening testing.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be screened.
 - Following the telephone screening, two in-person screening visits to determine eligibility.
 - The screening visit will involve a medical history and neurological examination, tests of memory and cognition, a lumbar puncture, collection of blood and saliva samples and brain Magnetic Resonance Imagine (MRI) studies. Participants will be required to appoint a Durable Power of Attorney for research and medical care during this protocol.
 - Eligible participants will be divided into two groups. One group will receive Exendin-4 and the other will receive a placebo. Participants will keep a medication diary and will be scheduled for additional study visits 1 and 2 weeks after the start of the treatment.
 - Participants will have regular followup visits with blood tests, imaging studies and other examinations 6, 12, and18 months after the start of the treatment. Another lumbar puncture may be performed optionally at the 18-month followup visit. Background:.
 - Exendin-4 (or Exenatide) is a medication currently used to treat diabetes but it has shown promising results in tests of its effectiveness in protecting neurons from damaging processes associated with Alzheimer s disease. It is possible that Exendin-4 may be a treatment for Alzheimer s disease, which involves the gradual deterioration and death of neurons. Researchers are interested in studying the safety and comparing the effects of Exendin-4 with placebo to on congestive performance, overall clinical progression, various chemicals measured in blood and cerebrospinal fluid and brain MRI, in individuals with early-stage Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment.
 Objectives:.
 - To determine the safety and tolerability, as well as to acquire preliminary evidence for the effectiveness of twice daily administration of Exendin-4 as a treatment for early-stage Alzheimer s disease or mild cognitive impairment.
 Eligibility:.
 - Individuals at least 60 years of age who have objective evidence of early-stage Alzheimer's disease or mild cognitive impairment in screening testing.
 Design:.
 - Participants will be screened.
 - Following the telephone screening, two in-person screening visits to determine eligibility.
 - The screening visit will involve a medical history and neurological examination, tests of memory and cognition, a lumbar puncture, collection of blood and saliva samples and brain Magnetic Resonance Imagine (MRI) studies. Participants will be required to appoint a Durable Power of Attorney for research and medical care during this protocol.
 - Eligible participants will be divided into two groups. One group will receive Exendin-4 and the other will receive a placebo. Participants will keep a medication diary and will be scheduled for additional study visits 1 and 2 weeks after the start of the treatment.
 - Participants will have regular followup visits with blood tests, imaging studies and other examinations 6, 12, and18 months after the start of the treatment. Another lumbar puncture may be performed optionally at the 18-month followup visit.

>>NCT01303744
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of ascending oral doses of CHF 5074 administered once per day for up to 12 weeks to patients with mild cognitive impairment.

>>NCT00141661
A 10-week safety and tolerability study of a potential treatment for mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01329601
The study aims to detect the effect of a structured cognitive rehabilitation program, teh stage specific intervention STACog, on cognitive performance and functional activation in fMRI in a group of patients with mild cognitive impairment and dementia due to Alzheimer's disease compared to a waiting group control sample. Baseline performance in cognitive tests and fMRI will further be assessed compared to healthy control subjects. The study aims to detect the effect of a structured cognitive rehabilitation program, teh stage specific intervention STACog, on cognitive performance and functional activation in fMRI in a group of patients with mild cognitive impairment and dementia due to Alzheimer's disease compared to a waiting group control sample. Baseline performance in cognitive tests and fMRI will further be assessed compared to healthy control subjects.

>>NCT01478633
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of galantamine in patients who failed to benefit from donepezil (patients switching from donepezil). In clinical practice, it is expected that galantamine will be used in patients switching from donepezil due to the insufficient efficacy of donepezil. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of galantamine in patients who failed to benefit from donepezil (patients switching from donepezil). In clinical practice, it is expected that galantamine will be used in patients switching from donepezil due to the insufficient efficacy of donepezil.

>>NCT01979419
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES.
 -Establish a registry for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and subcortical ischemic vascular dementia (SIVD).
 STUDY DESIGN.
 -This is a non-randomized, natural history, observational, registry study.
 SAMPLE SIZE AND RECRUITMENT.
 - Five hundred subjects will be enrolled at each clinical site (50 NC, 200 with MCI, 50 with AD, 100 with vMCI and 100 with SIVD).
 SUMMARY OF KEY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
 - Newly enrolled subjects will be between 50-80 (inclusive) years of age.
 - 1) Cognitively Normal Subjects.
 - 2) MCI subjects.
 - 3) AD subjects.
 - 4) vMCI or SIVD.
 PROCEDURES.
 - Recruited subjects will have clinical/cognitive assessments, biomarker and genetic sample collection and imaging.
 - Subjects will be followed up for 36 months from the baseline visit. All assessments are to be performed every year from baseline(0, 12, 24, 36 months), except; 1) FDG-PET and amyloid-PET will be performed every two years, i.e., on baseline and at 24 month visit. 2) CSF collection will also be performed on baseline and at 24 months visit. 3) Clinical/cognitive assessment and MRI evaluation will additionally be done at 6 months from baseline to determine short term change.
 OUTCOME MEASURES.
 - Group differences for each clinical, cognitive, biochemical and imaging measurement.
 - Rate of conversion or change of disease severity will be evaluated among all groups.
 - Correlations among biomarkers and biomarker changes PRIMARY OBJECTIVES.
 -Establish a registry for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and subcortical ischemic vascular dementia (SIVD).
 STUDY DESIGN.
 -This is a non-randomized, natural history, observational, registry study.
 SAMPLE SIZE AND RECRUITMENT.
 - Five hundred subjects will be enrolled at each clinical site (50 NC, 200 with MCI, 50 with AD, 100 with vMCI and 100 with SIVD).
 SUMMARY OF KEY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.
 - Newly enrolled subjects will be between 50-80 (inclusive) years of age.
 - 1) Cognitively Normal Subjects.
 - 2) MCI subjects.
 - 3) AD subjects.
 - 4) vMCI or SIVD.
 PROCEDURES.
 - Recruited subjects will have clinical/cognitive assessments, biomarker and genetic sample collection and imaging.
 - Subjects will be followed up for 36 months from the baseline visit. All assessments are to be performed every year from baseline(0, 12, 24, 36 months), except; 1) FDG-PET and amyloid-PET will be performed every two years, i.e., on baseline and at 24 month visit. 2) CSF collection will also be performed on baseline and at 24 months visit. 3) Clinical/cognitive assessment and MRI evaluation will additionally be done at 6 months from baseline to determine short term change.
 OUTCOME MEASURES.
 - Group differences for each clinical, cognitive, biochemical and imaging measurement.
 - Rate of conversion or change of disease severity will be evaluated among all groups.
 - Correlations among biomarkers and biomarker changes.

>>NCT01378026
G72 gene is located on the common linkage locus in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia and it encodes D-amino acid oxidase activator (DAOA). There are evidences that elucidated G72 and D-amino acid oxidase(DAO) together playing a critical role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Recently, reports discovered missense mutations in the DAO (R199W DAO and R38H DAO) are associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) and our preliminary data showed that the level of G72 autoantibody decreases in patients with ALS compared with normal control. Thus, we want to find out whether G72 plays a role in ALS and neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer disease and Parkinson's disease. First, we detect G72 protein and its autoantibody in sera of neurodegenerative diseases patients using ELISA and Western blotting and the data are compared with normal control. We hypothesize the levels of G72 protein and its autoantibody in neurodegenerative diseases are less than those in normal control. Then, we extract genomic DNA of neurodegenerative diseases patients and use polymerase chain reaction(PCR) to detect single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of G72. We aim to detect G72 missense SNP variants presented in ALS, AD and PD.

>>NCT02319681
This study seeks to establish the acceptability and evaluate the limited efficacy of Simple Reminiscence (SR), a home-delivered non-pharmacological intervention designed to relieve stress, improve affect and prevent or quell disruptive or maladaptive behaviors in community-residing individuals diagnosed with early Alzheimer's disease (EAD). Unmanaged episodes of anxiety can be antecedents of maladaptive behaviors, including agitation, anger and sometimes even violence.
 SR is a dyadic strategy; both the person with EAD and the caregiver engaged the patient's memory to interrupt a current episode of anxiety. This study seeks to establish the acceptability and evaluate the limited efficacy of Simple Reminiscence (SR), a home-delivered non-pharmacological intervention designed to relieve stress, improve affect and prevent or quell disruptive or maladaptive behaviors in community-residing individuals diagnosed with early Alzheimer's disease (EAD). Unmanaged episodes of anxiety can be antecedents of maladaptive behaviors, including agitation, anger and sometimes even violence.
 SR is a dyadic strategy; both the person with EAD and the caregiver engaged the patient's memory to interrupt a current episode of anxiety.

>>NCT02502253
Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) represents a group of persons who are at risk of incident dementia in the near-term. Persons with MCI who have deficits in short-term recall (amnestic MCI) are at significant risk of incident Alzheimer's disease (AD) (termed prodromal AD) and thus represent a worthy target for secondary prevention interventions.
 There is increasing evidence that risk factors for metabolic syndrome (such as prediabetes) increase risk of incident cognitive impairment and possibly AD and evidence that the neurons of the AD brain are in fact insulin resistant with diminished glucose uptake under physiological conditions. Thus, persons with MCI and prediabetes may be at particular risk of incident cognitive impairment and AD.
 A large clinical trial (ACCORD)1 demonstrated that tight control of peripheral blood glucose does not improve cognitive (or other health) outcomes in older persons with peripheral insulin resistance. Thus, there is a need to target cognitive outcomes in persons with MCI and metabolic risk factors and a drug targeting insulin resistance with good blood-brain-barrier (BBB) penetrance can potentially accomplish these objectives. While there is a phase III study of intranasal insulin targeting this strategy, nutraceuticals offer a low-tech solution that would be more suitable to future secondary prevention trials in MCI.
 Bioactive Dietary Polyphenol Preparation (BDPP) is a combination of three nutraceutical preparations (grape seed polyphenolic extract [GSE], resveratrol and Concord grape juice) that contain abundant concentrations of polyphenols. The investigators have found that oral BDPP administration was associated with improved cognition and brain plasticity (long-term potentiation [LTP]) in mouse models of metabolic syndrome and AD, as well as lowering brain amyloid and tau burden in an AD mouse model2-4. The investigators have demonstrated excellent absorption of oral BDPP in a small study in humans and similarly excellent CSF penetration of oral BDPP in rats but it is crucial to demonstrate safety and CSF penetration of oral BDPP in humans to assess its potential as a treatment for MCI and prediabetes.

>>NCT01702480
This is a single centre, 2 part study in older subjects. Part 1 (Pharmacokinetic [PK] Assessment) is a double blind, randomized, placebo-controlled 4-period crossover study investigating the PK profile of four different doses of GSK2981710. Eight subjects will receive a single dose of GSK2981710 10 gram (g), 20 g, 30 g, 40 g or placebo in the morning and have PK assessments (every 0.5 hrs up to 8 hrs post-dose) throughout the day in each period. Each subject will complete a total of four dosing sessions and 4 days of PK assessments in 2 weeks. The Part 1 PK data will be used for dose selection and pharmacodynamic (PD) assessment period in Part 2. If the data from Part 1 is inconclusive, an additional 8 subjects may be recruited and Part 1 repeated (possibly dropping some doses) to increase confidence. A subject's total participation in Part 1 of the study will last a maximum of approximately 7 weeks including screening. Subjects who have completed Part 1 may be screened for eligibility and enrolled for Part 2.
 Part 2 (PD Assessment) is a double blind randomized, placebo-controlled 2-period crossover design with 14-day treatment periods investigating the efficacy (cognitive performance) and tolerability (gastrointestinal [GI] side effects) of single daily dose of GSK2981710 selected from Part 1. Part 2 of the study will include the Screening period, two Baseline assessments (6-8 days before each Treatment period) and two 14-day treatment periods separated by a minimum 7-day washout period and follow-up visit of 3 to 5 days. Approximately 50 to 80 subjects will be randomized to either GSK2981710 or placebo. The PD assessments will be performed on 6 occasions for each subject: at 2 baselines (6 to 8 days before Day 1 of each treatment period), post-dose on the Day 1 of each treatment period to assess acute effects and on Day 15 of each treatment period (which is the day after the final dose) to assess chronic effects. A subject's total participation in Part 2 of the study will last approximately up to 12 weeks including screening.

>>NCT02130661
Rilapladib is a potent and selective inhibitor of lipoprotein associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2), which was previously under development for the treatment of atherosclerosis and is currently being developed for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
 This study is a single-center, open-label, two-part study. The two study parts will run independently. Subjects dosed in one part of this study will not be permitted to participate in the other part.
 Part A will investigate the pharmacokinetic profile of rilapladib and its metabolites, SB-664601 and GSK1174379, after single dose and steady state dosing of rilapladib 250 milligram (mg) along with the biliary and urinary elimination pathways of rilapladib 250 mg. Part B will determine the effect of repeat administration of itraconazole on the PK of a single oral dose of rilapladib 25 mg.
 Healthy male and female subjects, aged 18-65 years, will be recruited for this study. Ten subjects will be recruited for Part A and 20 subjects will be recruited for Part B.

>>NCT00575055
This is a multicenter, double-blind, placebo controlled, randomized, outpatient, multiple dose study in male and female patients ages 50 to less than 89 years with mild to moderate AD. Approximately 200 study sites in the US and Canada will be involved. Patients will be randomized to receive either bapineuzumab or placebo. Each patient's participation will last approximately 1.5 years.
 Bapineuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody, which binds to and clears beta amyloid peptide and is designed to provide antibodies to beta amyloid directly to the patient.

>>NCT02137460
This is a prospective cohort study for cognitively normal (young and old), mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease people This is a prospective cohort study for cognitively normal (young and old), mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease people.

>>NCT00627848
The purpose of the study is to investigate the effect of rivastigmine given as an acute dose compared to placebo and after 1 month chronic dosing on fMRI response during a face recognition task. Furthermore, the aim is to investigate whether fMRI response is correlated with long term treatment effect at 6 months and 12 months.

>>NCT01716637
While the cause of AD is still unknown, evidence suggests it develops because of a complex series of events in the brain that occur over time. Two pathways possibly involved in development of AD are inflammation and oxidative stress. Scientists have linked chronic inflammatory events in the brain with the onset and progression of Alzheimer's Disease. Oxidative stress has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of a number of neurological disorders including Alzheimer's Disease.
 Etanercept (Enbrel) is an approved drug for the treatment of several forms of arthritis when administered by injection. Some research suggests that etanercept, when administered by injection into the tissues close to the spinal column (perispinally), may modulate certain aspects of the immune system and provide some beneficial effect for people with Alzheimer's disease. Studies suggest that supplementation with specific nutrients may also have a positive effect in support of cognitive function.
 This study will be conducted at one research office with volunteers who have been diagnosed with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. Each qualifying participant will be randomly assigned to receive an etanercept injection plus nutritional supplements for 6 weeks followed by a crossover and a washout period of 4 weeks to then receiving nutritional supplements alone or vice versa for another 6 weeks.
 Participants will undergo blood and urine safety assessments at the beginning and end of each 6 week treatment period. During 4 of the 6 weekly visits in the treatment period with the injections, you will complete the cognitive tests twice; once before and once 2 hours after the injection. During 4 of the 6 weekly visits in the treatment period without the injections, you will also complete the cognitive tests twice; once before and once 2 hours after being asked to lie down onto a table for 5 minutes. You will be allowed to continue your standard of care for Alzheimer's disease throughout your participation in the study.

>>NCT00217763
The purpose of this Phase 3 study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 3APS as an add-on therapy to most standard medication for Alzheimer's disease compared to placebo (inactive substance pill) in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this Phase 3 study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 3APS as an add-on therapy to most standard medication for Alzheimer's disease compared to placebo (inactive substance pill) in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00596024
Oxidative damage by free radicals may be involved in causing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Free radicals may lead to death of nerve cells and decline in brain function. Certain antioxidants may suppress this free radical damage associated with AD. Carotenoids are a family of naturally occurring antioxidants that have important functions for human health. Carotenoids are known to reduce oxidative damage but their effects have not been studied in AD patients.
 The objective of the study is to examine whether lutein supplementation helps to reduce oxidative damage from free radicals in AD patients.

>>NCT01565382
Re-read of brain amyloid scans acquired in previous AV-45 clinical studies by readers trained using updated reading methodology. The scans in this study came from subjects who had Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).

>>NCT00878059
This is a research study about how family members make research participation decisions for a relative with Alzheimer's or a related dementia. The purpose of this study is to learn more about how proxies (the family member who makes decisions for that relative), would think through decisions about whether to enroll their relative in studies for not-yet-approved medications for Alzheimer's Disease. The long-term goal of the study is to improve the way researchers inform families about clinical research studies and opportunities for participation. This study is being sponsored by the National Institute on Aging.
 Study participants will be interviewed by a research staff member about research enrollment decisions for their relative. A number of standardized questionnaires will be administered. There is only one visit required. The interview lasts about three hours. The investigators will try to make it as convenient as possible for your schedule.
 This is a non-intervention study. UCSF CHR .
 H58055-31168-02 v.1 Date: 012709 This is a research study about how family members make research participation decisions for a relative with Alzheimer's or a related dementia. The purpose of this study is to learn more about how proxies (the family member who makes decisions for that relative), would think through decisions about whether to enroll their relative in studies for not-yet-approved medications for Alzheimer's Disease. The long-term goal of the study is to improve the way researchers inform families about clinical research studies and opportunities for participation. This study is being sponsored by the National Institute on Aging.
 Study participants will be interviewed by a research staff member about research enrollment decisions for their relative. A number of standardized questionnaires will be administered. There is only one visit required. The interview lasts about three hours. The investigators will try to make it as convenient as possible for your schedule.
 This is a non-intervention study. UCSF CHR .
 H58055-31168-02 v.1 Date: 012709.

>>NCT00467766
A unique multinational study was conducted simultaneously in the USA, England and Australia. The goals of the study were to answer two questions: Does psychosocial support for the family enhance the effectiveness of drug treatment for Alzheimer's disease? Is the added value of psychosocial support the same in all 3 countries? A unique multinational study was conducted simultaneously in the USA, England and Australia. The goals of the study were to answer two questions: Does psychosocial support for the family enhance the effectiveness of drug treatment for Alzheimer's disease? Is the added value of psychosocial support the same in all 3 countries?.

>>NCT01345110
Longitudinal observational study of cognitive functions, physical health and biological parameters in the whole population living in Abbiategrasso born between 1935 and 19391773 subjects, followed for six years in order to know the prevalence and the incidence of dementia and risk and protective factors of normal and pathological mental aging.
 The peculiarities of this study that must assure the outcome efficacy are:.
 - Selected age: since 70-75 years old people represents a transition age from adulthood to old age, it is of special interest to study the evolution of psychic and physical functions of this population.
 - Whole population not a sample study.
 - Location: the small area involved (Abbiategrasso is a town of 30.000 inhabitants)can contribute to guarantee more homogeneity among the subjects and reduce undesired variability.
 - multidimensional assessment(biological, clinical, social, psychological data collected) After initial screening, the recruited population will be followed up for two more times (every two years ) Longitudinal observational study of cognitive functions, physical health and biological parameters in the whole population living in Abbiategrasso born between 1935 and 19391773 subjects, followed for six years in order to know the prevalence and the incidence of dementia and risk and protective factors of normal and pathological mental aging.
 The peculiarities of this study that must assure the outcome efficacy are:.
 - Selected age: since 70-75 years old people represents a transition age from adulthood to old age, it is of special interest to study the evolution of psychic and physical functions of this population.
 - Whole population not a sample study.
 - Location: the small area involved (Abbiategrasso is a town of 30.000 inhabitants)can contribute to guarantee more homogeneity among the subjects and reduce undesired variability.
 - multidimensional assessment(biological, clinical, social, psychological data collected) After initial screening, the recruited population will be followed up for two more times (every two years ).

>>NCT02446132
This is an extension study of the Phase 3 Studies 15-AVP-786-301 and 15-AVP-786-302, which also allows participants from the Phase 2 Study 12-AVR-131 to be included. This is an extension study of the Phase 3 Studies 15-AVP-786-301 and 15-AVP-786-302, which also allows participants from the Phase 2 Study 12-AVR-131 to be included.

>>NCT00100282
This is a multi-center, double-blind, inpatient study followed by outpatient, placebo-controlled, single-dose, dose-escalation evaluation of the safety and tolerability of PPI-1019 in patients with mild-moderate Alzheimers disease (AD). Up to 12 sequential cohorts of 8 patients (6 active and 2 placebo) will be given a single PPI-1019 dose intravenously (IV) over 1 minute in order to determine a maximum tolerated dose (MTD). The MTD will be the dose immediately below the not-tolerated dose.

>>NCT02832921
The primary objective of this program is to apply a virtual reality (VR) cognitive-motor rehabilitation program to delay or slow cognitive decline of middle-aged adults who have a family history of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and thus are at particularly high risk of developing the disease.

>>NCT00255086
The aim of the proposed study is to determine if the NMDA receptor antagonist memantine has a neuroprotective effect on magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRS) measures of brain NAA and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) volumetric measures of hippocampal volume. In secondary analyses, we will determine if measures of clinical stabilization produced by memantine in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) parallels stabilization of MRS measures of brain NAA and MRI volumetric measures of hippocampal volume. The aim of the proposed study is to determine if the NMDA receptor antagonist memantine has a neuroprotective effect on magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRS) measures of brain NAA and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) volumetric measures of hippocampal volume. In secondary analyses, we will determine if measures of clinical stabilization produced by memantine in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) parallels stabilization of MRS measures of brain NAA and MRI volumetric measures of hippocampal volume.

>>NCT01548287
This is a study where AZD5213 or placebo is given to patients with Mild Alzheimer's Disease or Mild Cognitive Impairment in a blinded and random assignment. The main study objective is to estimate the relationship of sleep duration versus dose after 4 weeks of treatment. This is a study where AZD5213 or placebo is given to patients with Mild Alzheimer's Disease or Mild Cognitive Impairment in a blinded and random assignment. The main study objective is to estimate the relationship of sleep duration versus dose after 4 weeks of treatment.

>>NCT02817074
Phase III randomized controlled trial designed to test the effects of a 3-year intervention of the MIND diet (Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay) on cognitive decline and brain neurodegeneration among 600 individuals 65+ years without cognitive impairment who are overweight and have suboptimal diets. Phase III randomized controlled trial designed to test the effects of a 3-year intervention of the MIND diet (Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay) on cognitive decline and brain neurodegeneration among 600 individuals 65+ years without cognitive impairment who are overweight and have suboptimal diets.

>>NCT02838563
Current scales are not suited to a direct measure for the elderly with cognitive disorders and are difficult to handle for the care teams. In this context, a visual analog scale was created to answer a single question "How are you feeling now, immediately?" with the help of pictograms. This study aims to assess the validity and reliability of the Scale of Well-Being Assessment (SIWA) (in french : Echelle d'Evaluation Instantane du Bien-Etre (EVIBE) in people with Alzheimer's disease or a related disease.

>>NCT00259415
This study is a collaborative effort between a community-based service organization, Supportive Older Women's Network (SOWN) and an academic research division at Thomas Jefferson University (TJU). We plan to use a randomized controlled two-group design to: 1) test the effectiveness of the intervention at 6 months to enhance social support and perceived efficacy in comparison to a control group; 2) test if gains are sustained over 12 months (within experimental group comparison); and 3) evaluate the cost and cost effectiveness of the intervention. Three secondary study aims are to describe the process and content of tele-support groups (dose/intensity, support group topics); evaluate the relative benefits for African American and White females; and determine if control group subjects benefit from receiving a peer's telephone number for mutual support (within group comparison between 6 and 12 months).

>>NCT01258452
To evaluate the effects of a high-calorie high-fat meal on the extent and rate of absorption of CHF 5074 after single oral administration in young healthy male volunteers.

>>NCT01482013
This is a safety and tolerability study investigating the effect of HPP854 in subjects with mild cognitive impairment or a diagnosis of mild Alzheimer's disease. The study will assess the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic relationships of HPP854 in plasma, pharmacodynamic relationship in cerebral spinal fluid and plasma concentration profiles for Amyloid-Beta.

>>NCT01982578
Genistein is an isoflavone that has antioxidant and neuroprotective effects on Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 A few years ago our group reported that genistein increased PPARg (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma) levels. By the way, activation of retinoid X receptor (RXR)-PPARg dimer, will make overexpressing apolipoprotein E (apoE), which mediates the degradation of amyloid beta (AB). Therefore, we believe that if this phytoestrogen administration increases the availability of the transcription factor, it can increase apoE and also AB degradation.
 The main aim of this study is to determinate the effect of 60 mg BID of genistein administration, during 180 days, compared to placebo group, in AD patients. Genistein is an isoflavone that has antioxidant and neuroprotective effects on Alzheimer's disease (AD).
 A few years ago our group reported that genistein increased PPARg (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma) levels. By the way, activation of retinoid X receptor (RXR)-PPARg dimer, will make overexpressing apolipoprotein E (apoE), which mediates the degradation of amyloid beta (AB). Therefore, we believe that if this phytoestrogen administration increases the availability of the transcription factor, it can increase apoE and also AB degradation.
 The main aim of this study is to determinate the effect of 60 mg BID of genistein administration, during 180 days, compared to placebo group, in AD patients.

>>NCT00954616
In each of the 7 French areas that should be involved, patients aged 75 years and over from three different sectors will be included: the geriatric consultation unit (60%) and two kinds of nursing homes, private (20%) and state (10%). Outpatients will be included in chronological order; patients in nursing homes will be included at random. The patients and their families will be asked about the treatments received on the day of inclusion. The inclusion period will extend over a year. The investigating practitioners will be asked to fill in a questionnaire reporting the main clinical data, adverse effects occurrence and information on the treatment given.

>>NCT01125683
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether treatment with single and multiple oral doses of AZD1446 for 1 week will have effect on Quantified Electroencephalography and Event-Related Potentials in patients with Alzheimers Disease. The total treatment period is 9 weeks, divided into 5 equally long sub-periods of 7 days and 4 wash-out periods of 7 days each.

>>NCT00888056
Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia for which no treatment has shown consistent efficacy to stop or slow down the disease. Recent report of enhancement of memory abilities by bilateral chronic deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the fornix in the hypothalamus suggests that neuromodulation of circuits involved in memory processes may have therapeutic implications in AD patients with memory decline.
 The primary objectives of this prospective, non-controlled, pilot study are to evaluate the feasibility and safety of DBS in AD patients with mild cognitive and memory impairment and to evaluate the efficacy of DBS to slow down or stabilize this decline. Five patients with AD (DSM IV) diagnosed less than two years, with mild cognitive decline (MMSE 20-24) and specific impairment of episodic memory will be included in a 2-year period. The evaluation criteria for feasibility will be the proportion of patients undergoing the procedure, chronic stimulation and evaluation process without adverse event (AE). Efficacy will be evaluated using numerous cognitive and memory testing. Changes in behavioral and mood scales and changes in hypothalamic functions (clinical, biological and hormonal assessment) will evaluate safety and tolerance. Clinical, neuro-psychological, biological and imaging assessment will be performed 3 and one month before and 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after surgery. Bilateral electrodes (Medtronic 3389) will be implanted, by MR-guided frame-based stereotaxy, in the hypothalamic part of the fornix and then connected to the generator (Kinetra, Medtronic). Chronic high-frequency stimulation will be delivered immediately after surgery.
 The investigators expect to slow down or to stabilize the spontaneous decline of MMSE and ADAS scores after 6, 12 and 24 months of stimulation. In case of efficacy, DBS might offer to AD patient the possibility to slow down/stabilize their symptoms, which no other treatment can currently offer and to increase their quality of life.

>>NCT00829816
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of dimebon given to Alzheimer's disease patients currently on a stable dose and regimen of memantine or memantine plus donepezil.

>>NCT00130429
The purpose of this study is to assess the effect of PYM50028 administered once daily for up to 12 weeks on the memory and other faculties of subjects with dementia due to Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01802554
Cardiovascular disease and depression are some of the most costly illnesses to society and caring for a loved-one with Alzheimer's disease has been associated with increased risk for both depression and cardiovascular disease. Indeed, depressive symptoms have been linked with elevated plasma concentrations of D-dimer and Interleukin-6 (IL-6), both of which are associated with increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD). The present research tests a brief behavioral intervention for reducing both depressive symptoms and CVD biomarkers in Alzheimer caregivers. We hypothesize that caregivers receiving a brief Behavioral Activation (BA) therapy will show greater reductions in depressive symptoms and in CVD biomarkers relative to those randomized to a time-equivalent Information and Support (IS) therapy. Cardiovascular disease and depression are some of the most costly illnesses to society and caring for a loved-one with Alzheimer's disease has been associated with increased risk for both depression and cardiovascular disease. Indeed, depressive symptoms have been linked with elevated plasma concentrations of D-dimer and Interleukin-6 (IL-6), both of which are associated with increased risk for cardiovascular disease (CVD). The present research tests a brief behavioral intervention for reducing both depressive symptoms and CVD biomarkers in Alzheimer caregivers. We hypothesize that caregivers receiving a brief Behavioral Activation (BA) therapy will show greater reductions in depressive symptoms and in CVD biomarkers relative to those randomized to a time-equivalent Information and Support (IS) therapy.

>>NCT02453763
The purpose of this research study is to measure current flow inside the head using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The data from this study will be used to map the current flow caused from the electrical stimulation inside the head. The methods develop will be used to map and better control delivery of the current for electrical stimulation to modify a psychiatric condition such as depression; or other conditions such as epilepsy, Parkinson's disease or autism. The purpose of this research study is to measure current flow inside the head using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The data from this study will be used to map the current flow caused from the electrical stimulation inside the head. The methods develop will be used to map and better control delivery of the current for electrical stimulation to modify a psychiatric condition such as depression; or other conditions such as epilepsy, Parkinson's disease or autism.

>>NCT00034762
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of risperidone compared with placebo in the treatment of psychotic symptoms in patients with Alzheimer's disease The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of risperidone compared with placebo in the treatment of psychotic symptoms in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00539305
The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of testosterone (T) replacement on changes in thinking and memory, as well as mood in older men with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and low T levels. The study will also examine whether taking testosterone has effects on biological markers related to Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of testosterone (T) replacement on changes in thinking and memory, as well as mood in older men with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and low T levels. The study will also examine whether taking testosterone has effects on biological markers related to Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02016560
This is a cross-sectional and longitudinal study that will evaluate imaging characteristics of 18F-AV-1451 in cognitively healthy volunteers, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) subjects.

>>NCT01343966
This is a Phase II, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MABT5102A in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02284906
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of pioglitazone at 24 months compared with placebo on cognitive decline in high-risk participants who have completed the AD-4833/TOMM40_301 study [NCT01931566] with an adjudicated diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of pioglitazone at 24 months compared with placebo on cognitive decline in high-risk participants who have completed the AD-4833/TOMM40_301 study [NCT01931566] with an adjudicated diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's Disease (AD).

>>NCT02414347
This project will collect quantitative pilot data that will allow the characterization of uptake and binding of 18F-AV-1451 (also known as F 18 T807), a novel tau imaging compound, in individuals with and without brain tau fibrils. The primary goal is to develop tau imaging technique as an antecedent biomarker of cognitive decline. The investigators propose to obtain preliminary data that will support the possibility of detecting cognitive decline in its earliest stages, before the occurrence of dementia.

>>NCT00040378
The Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease by Vitamin E and Selenium (PREADVISE) prevention trial is an important addition to the Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT). As a prevention trial, PREADVISE is trying to find out if taking selenium and/or Vitamin E supplements can help to prevent memory loss and dementia such as Alzheimer's disease. The Prevention of Alzheimer's Disease by Vitamin E and Selenium (PREADVISE) prevention trial is an important addition to the Selenium and Vitamin E Cancer Prevention Trial (SELECT). As a prevention trial, PREADVISE is trying to find out if taking selenium and/or Vitamin E supplements can help to prevent memory loss and dementia such as Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01518374
This protocol is designed to standardize imaging studies using florbetapir F 18 PET to provide information on amyloid burden in subjects participating in other studies (companion protocol) such as longitudinal studies of aging and studies of biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases.

>>NCT00244322
The purposes of this study are to determine:.
 - The safety of LY450139 dihydrate and any side effects that might be associated with it.
 - How much LY450139 dihydrate should be given and how long it may be detected in blood.
 - To determine if LY450139 dihydrate may have an effect on a protein found in blood, called A beta. This protein is studied in subjects with Alzheimer's disease.
 - To collect and store samples from blood and spinal fluid for research related to Alzheimer's disease and similar (neurodegenerative) diseases or inflammation (irritation) that may provide information on how subjects respond to LY450139 or other medications.
 Length of study: Approximately 29 weeks.
 Number of office visits: 11 for most subjects: initial visit, every other week during 14 weeks of study drug treatment and 2 follow-up visits.
 At no cost, approximately 45 eligible participants will receive:.
 - Study medication.
 - Study-related diagnostic and laboratory evaluations.

>>NCT02836054
Analysis of 4 CSF Alzheimer's disease biomarkers (total and phosphorylated tau protein, A40 and A1-42) and morphological brain MRI in older patients (>60 year's old) with bipolar disorder, after an evaluation of their cognitive functions.
 Comparison between two groups of patients : patients with cognitive disorders and patients without cognitive disorders.
 The objective is to describe and compare the profile of those biomarkers in those two populations. Analysis of 4 CSF Alzheimer's disease biomarkers (total and phosphorylated tau protein, A40 and A1-42) and morphological brain MRI in older patients (>60 year's old) with bipolar disorder, after an evaluation of their cognitive functions.
 Comparison between two groups of patients : patients with cognitive disorders and patients without cognitive disorders.
 The objective is to describe and compare the profile of those biomarkers in those two populations.

>>NCT00627029
This is a Congressionally mandated study. In the original study, 16 demonstration programs provided care coordination services to beneficiaries with chronic illness in Medicare's fee-for-service program. A five-year CMS-funded study tested whether the programs can improve patients' use of medical services, improve patients' outcomes and satisfaction with care and reduce Medicare costs. The study also assessed physicians' satisfaction with the programs.
 In 2008 Congress extended the project for two of the original programs--Mercy Medical Center - North Iowa and Health Quality Partners in Pennsylvania--and they will enroll Medicare beneficiaries and provide care coordination services into the spring of 2010. This is a Congressionally mandated study. In the original study, 16 demonstration programs provided care coordination services to beneficiaries with chronic illness in Medicare's fee-for-service program. A five-year CMS-funded study tested whether the programs can improve patients' use of medical services, improve patients' outcomes and satisfaction with care and reduce Medicare costs. The study also assessed physicians' satisfaction with the programs.
 In 2008 Congress extended the project for two of the original programs--Mercy Medical Center - North Iowa and Health Quality Partners in Pennsylvania--and they will enroll Medicare beneficiaries and provide care coordination services into the spring of 2010.

>>NCT02485730
The ALFA study is a long term, prospective, observational study of AD patients' adult children aimed to study and characterize key physio-pathological features of the preclinical phase of AD. The ALFA study is a long term, prospective, observational study of AD patients' adult children aimed to study and characterize key physio-pathological features of the preclinical phase of AD.

>>NCT01330160
If the risk of dementia occurrence after stroke is well known, few data exist about the factors influencing positively or negatively the developement of cognitive disorders or dementia. The aim of the study is so to determine prospectively the clinical, biological, lesional and pharmacological factors associated with post-stroke dementia by the long-term follow-up of a stroke patient cohort. If the risk of dementia occurrence after stroke is well known, few data exist about the factors influencing positively or negatively the developement of cognitive disorders or dementia. The aim of the study is so to determine prospectively the clinical, biological, lesional and pharmacological factors associated with post-stroke dementia by the long-term follow-up of a stroke patient cohort.

>>NCT00391794
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of an Early Stage Memory Loss Support Group (ESSG) and Education Seminar (ES) on quality of life, mood, social support, distress about memory loss and interpersonal relationships of memory loss participants and their caregivers. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of an Early Stage Memory Loss Support Group (ESSG) and Education Seminar (ES) on quality of life, mood, social support, distress about memory loss and interpersonal relationships of memory loss participants and their caregivers.

>>NCT00735800
Caring for a patient with dementia is associated with increased feelings of burden and depression. The proposed study will examine the efficacy of Family Intervention: Telephone Tracking - Dementia (FITT-Dementia), a multi-component, family-based, telephone intervention, as a tool to reduce caregiver stress. Caring for a patient with dementia is associated with increased feelings of burden and depression. The proposed study will examine the efficacy of Family Intervention: Telephone Tracking - Dementia (FITT-Dementia), a multi-component, family-based, telephone intervention, as a tool to reduce caregiver stress.

>>NCT02560753
The study is a randomized, parallel, 4-dose design in subjects with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease. Subjects will be randomized to one of 4 doses of T3D-959. Subjects will be evaluated for changes from baseline in cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (FDG-PET imaging), functional connectivity of the hippocampus (BOLD-fMRI) and cognitive function (ADAS-Cog11 and DSST) as well as assessed for safety and tolerability to T3D-959.
 An expanded access extension is planed to provide access to study medication to subjects who have completed the main study and requested continued use. The study is a randomized, parallel, 4-dose design in subjects with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's Disease. Subjects will be randomized to one of 4 doses of T3D-959. Subjects will be evaluated for changes from baseline in cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (FDG-PET imaging), functional connectivity of the hippocampus (BOLD-fMRI) and cognitive function (ADAS-Cog11 and DSST) as well as assessed for safety and tolerability to T3D-959.
 An expanded access extension is planed to provide access to study medication to subjects who have completed the main study and requested continued use.

>>NCT00083590
The present study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Chinese herb huperzine A in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a randomized controlled trial of its effect on cognitive function. The present study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Chinese herb huperzine A in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a randomized controlled trial of its effect on cognitive function.

>>NCT02363504
The cause of Alzheimer's disease, the most common form of dementia, remains unknown. Neuropathological studies suggest that a small area in the brainstem, the locus coeruleus, might be the site of the onset of the disease. This area is the sole source of noradrenalin to the brain, a neurotransmitter involved in arousal but also cognitive functions. Animal and pharmacological studies have hinted towards an important role of this area in memory functioning. However, these studies were hampered by the limited spatial resolution, making it hard to clearly localize the locus coeruleus in the brain. New developments in brain imaging allow now to visualize the brain with stunning precision. Furthermore, a non-invasive new stimulation method, transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation, is believed to excite the locus coeruleus and thereby influencing neuronal networks and memory functioning.
 There are three aims in this project:.
 1. To investigate how the functional interaction between the locus coeruleus and other brain areas, in particular the medial temporal lobe areas, during memory processes (encoding, consolidation and retrieval) change with development of Alzheimer's disease.
 2. To investigate associations between noradrenaline, memory performance and brain functioning. The investigators aim to investigate how acute noradrenalin levels change during the different memory processes and whether or not this is beneficial for performance. Furthermore, the investigators will investigate whether this interaction between noradrenalin, memory performance and brain functioning is different healthy older individuals (n =35) or patients with prodromal Alzheimer's disease (n =35).
 3. To investigate the underlying neural network changes during transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation. The investigators will focus on differences in functional connectivity between the locus coeruleus and the medial temporal lobe areas in healthy older individuals and prodromal Alzheimer's disease patients. An experimental condition will be compared with a sham condition in a pseudo-randomized cross-over design.

>>NCT00880451
The protocol objectives are to enable prospective IRB review of research using human MRI scans and data collected under other branch protocols or extramural sources. By combining data from multiple sources the investigators will be able to conduct analyses that require large numbers of observations that exceed the numbers collected in any single study. They will also be able to stratify and subgroup the combined samples in different ways to permit analyses that would otherwise not be possible. The study population consists of normal individuals and clinical groups of all ages. Clinical groups will be added by amendment including patients suffering from schizophrenia, ADHD, autism, Klinefelter's disease and Alzheimer's disease. The study design consists of 1) automated segmentation of MRI brain scans to obtain regional measurements of cortical thickness and volumetric measurements of brain structures including basal ganglia, 2) manual segmentation of brain structures and brain anomalies not amenable to automated segmentation such as Virchow-Robbins spaces, 3) correlation analyses between MRI brain measurements and available demographic (e.g. gender) and physiological (e.g. BMI) data, statistical analysis of group differences where the groups are defined by diagnosis, age, gender or by other potentially useful classification. Since all data were collected under other protocols there are no additional risks or benefits associated with this protocol. This protocol combines MRI data from disparate sources and can provide important information regarding factors that may affect the comparability of MRI scans obtained from different sites using various types of MRI scanners and pulse sequences to generate MRI images. It will also enable the analysis of specific subgroups with sufficient numbers of observations for meaningful statistics.... The protocol objectives are to enable prospective IRB review of research using human MRI scans and data collected under other branch protocols or extramural sources. By combining data from multiple sources the investigators will be able to conduct analyses that require large numbers of observations that exceed the numbers collected in any single study. They will also be able to stratify and subgroup the combined samples in different ways to permit analyses that would otherwise not be possible. The study population consists of normal individuals and clinical groups of all ages. Clinical groups will be added by amendment including patients suffering from schizophrenia, ADHD, autism, Klinefelter's disease and Alzheimer's disease. The study design consists of 1) automated segmentation of MRI brain scans to obtain regional measurements of cortical thickness and volumetric measurements of brain structures including basal ganglia, 2) manual segmentation of brain structures and brain anomalies not amenable to automated segmentation such as Virchow-Robbins spaces, 3) correlation analyses between MRI brain measurements and available demographic (e.g. gender) and physiological (e.g. BMI) data, statistical analysis of group differences where the groups are defined by diagnosis, age, gender or by other potentially useful classification. Since all data were collected under other protocols there are no additional risks or benefits associated with this protocol. This protocol combines MRI data from disparate sources and can provide important information regarding factors that may affect the comparability of MRI scans obtained from different sites using various types of MRI scanners and pulse sequences to generate MRI images. It will also enable the analysis of specific subgroups with sufficient numbers of observations for meaningful statistics....

>>NCT00768261
The overall purpose of this research is to determine if there is a relationship between your symptoms of Dementia of the Alzheimers type and changes in the size and shape of certain brain structures during combined Donepezil (Aricept) and Memantine (Namenda) treatment. The overall purpose of this research is to determine if there is a relationship between your symptoms of Dementia of the Alzheimers type and changes in the size and shape of certain brain structures during combined Donepezil (Aricept) and Memantine (Namenda) treatment.

>>NCT00937846
GSK1034702 is being developed for improving cognitive impairment in diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. This study will be done in healthy men to investigate how much of the study drug gets into the brain. This will be done using Positron Emission Tomography (PET). GSK1034702 is being developed for improving cognitive impairment in diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. This study will be done in healthy men to investigate how much of the study drug gets into the brain. This will be done using Positron Emission Tomography (PET).

>>NCT02033941
Alzheimer Disease (AD) is a progressive brain disease generally known as senile dementia. Our proposed study will establish safety and pharmacokinetics of Meganatural-AZ GSPE in AD subjects. As secondary measures, we will also provide the essential human data to guide the design of future studies to test the efficacy of GSPE in mitigating cognitive deterioration in AD patients. Alzheimer Disease (AD) is a progressive brain disease generally known as senile dementia. Our proposed study will establish safety and pharmacokinetics of Meganatural-AZ GSPE in AD subjects. As secondary measures, we will also provide the essential human data to guide the design of future studies to test the efficacy of GSPE in mitigating cognitive deterioration in AD patients.

>>NCT00439010
The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I AV39 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect -amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects. The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I AV39 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect -amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects.

>>NCT00006176
The purpose of this study is to learn more about the medical problems and the genetic factors involved in a recently defined form of inherited dementia called "familial dementia with neuroserpin inclusion bodies (FDNIB)." Abnormal substances in nerve cells of patients with this disease affect brain and nervous system function, causing confusion, memory decline and impaired cognition (thinking ability). Patients also develop movement disorders and, possibly, seizures. Symptoms begin in midlife, between 45 and 55 years of age.
 Patients with FDNIB and family members 18 years of age or older at risk for the disease may be eligible for this 3-year study.
 Participants will have a medical and family history and review of medical records; interview with a medical geneticist (specialist in genetics); physical, neurological and psychiatric examinations; and the following tests and procedures:.
 1. Blood tests to assess general health.
 2. Chest and skull X-rays.
 3. Electrocardiogram (EKG)-record of the electrical activity of the heart using electrodes placed on the chest.
 4. Electroencephalogram (EEG)-record of the electrical activity of the brain using electrodes placed on the head.
 5. Ultrasound of the abdomen-imaging of abdominal organs using sound waves.
 6. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-imaging of the brain using a strong magnetic field and radio waves.
 7. Hearing evaluation.
 8. Assessment of performance of daily living activities.
 9. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)-imaging of brain metabolism and blood flow using a radioactive substance injected into a vein.
 The evaluation will be done over a 3- to 4-day period. At their completion, participants will meet with a physician and a genetics counselor to discuss the clinically significant findings. Participants may be asked to return for follow-up evaluations every 6 months to a year (depending on the individual's condition) for 3 years. The purpose of this study is to learn more about the medical problems and the genetic factors involved in a recently defined form of inherited dementia called "familial dementia with neuroserpin inclusion bodies (FDNIB)." Abnormal substances in nerve cells of patients with this disease affect brain and nervous system function, causing confusion, memory decline and impaired cognition (thinking ability). Patients also develop movement disorders and, possibly, seizures. Symptoms begin in midlife, between 45 and 55 years of age.
 Patients with FDNIB and family members 18 years of age or older at risk for the disease may be eligible for this 3-year study.
 Participants will have a medical and family history and review of medical records; interview with a medical geneticist (specialist in genetics); physical, neurological and psychiatric examinations; and the following tests and procedures:.
 1. Blood tests to assess general health.
 2. Chest and skull X-rays.
 3. Electrocardiogram (EKG)-record of the electrical activity of the heart using electrodes placed on the chest.
 4. Electroencephalogram (EEG)-record of the electrical activity of the brain using electrodes placed on the head.
 5. Ultrasound of the abdomen-imaging of abdominal organs using sound waves.
 6. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-imaging of the brain using a strong magnetic field and radio waves.
 7. Hearing evaluation.
 8. Assessment of performance of daily living activities.
 9. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)-imaging of brain metabolism and blood flow using a radioactive substance injected into a vein.
 The evaluation will be done over a 3- to 4-day period. At their completion, participants will meet with a physician and a genetics counselor to discuss the clinically significant findings. Participants may be asked to return for follow-up evaluations every 6 months to a year (depending on the individual's condition) for 3 years.

>>NCT00954369
PHASE: Phase 0, Exploratory Study.
 OBJECTIVES: To collect drug safety, bio-distribution and dosimetry data, to begin collection of PET/CT imaging data, to acquire experience to improve study design and the conduct of future studies.
 DESIGN: Exploratory, open label, non-randomized, multi-center study.
 DURATION: Three visits - one screening, one imaging and one follow-up visit at 24 hours post-dose.
 PROCEDURES: Informed consent, collection of demographic information and medical history, administration of mental status exam, physical examination, vital signs, 12-lead ECGs, routine blood tests to assess major organ functions, complete blood counts and clinical chemistries for safety, dosing with [F-18]W372, PET imaging scans of brain (in sixteen subjects), whole body PET imaging and urine collections for dosimetry evaluation (in four subjects only), observation and interviews following imaging to collect adverse events.
 SUBJECTS: Twenty (20) subjects >= 55 years old:.
 Group 1 will consist of 10 subjects who have a low probability of being currently positive for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) as defined by the protocol criteria (MMSE >= 28). Four of the 10 subjects will undergo whole body PET imaging for dosimetry evaluations and 6 of the 10 subjects will undergo PET imaging of the brain only.
 Group 2 will consist of 10 subjects who have a high probability of currently being positive for AD as defined by the protocol criteria (MMSE < 24); these 10 subjects will undergo PET imaging of the brain only. PHASE: Phase 0, Exploratory Study.
 OBJECTIVES: To collect drug safety, bio-distribution and dosimetry data, to begin collection of PET/CT imaging data, to acquire experience to improve study design and the conduct of future studies.
 DESIGN: Exploratory, open label, non-randomized, multi-center study.
 DURATION: Three visits - one screening, one imaging and one follow-up visit at 24 hours post-dose.
 PROCEDURES: Informed consent, collection of demographic information and medical history, administration of mental status exam, physical examination, vital signs, 12-lead ECGs, routine blood tests to assess major organ functions, complete blood counts and clinical chemistries for safety, dosing with [F-18]W372, PET imaging scans of brain (in sixteen subjects), whole body PET imaging and urine collections for dosimetry evaluation (in four subjects only), observation and interviews following imaging to collect adverse events.
 SUBJECTS: Twenty (20) subjects >= 55 years old:.
 Group 1 will consist of 10 subjects who have a low probability of being currently positive for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) as defined by the protocol criteria (MMSE >= 28). Four of the 10 subjects will undergo whole body PET imaging for dosimetry evaluations and 6 of the 10 subjects will undergo PET imaging of the brain only.
 Group 2 will consist of 10 subjects who have a high probability of currently being positive for AD as defined by the protocol criteria (MMSE < 24); these 10 subjects will undergo PET imaging of the brain only.

>>NCT02166827
To evaluate the long-term efficacy of the NeuroAD system To evaluate the long-term efficacy of the NeuroAD system.

>>NCT01324518
The purpose of this study is to determine whether ORM-12741 is safe and effective in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to determine whether ORM-12741 is safe and effective in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00544856
A recent meta-analysis that included over 29.000 individuals found that the odds ratio (OR) of individuals with high brain reserve compared to low was 0.54 (p < 0.0001), a risk decrease of 46%. Among the factors that influence cognitive reserve, mentally stimulating activities was the most robust factor after controlling for education, age, occupation and other potential confounds. The brain reserve effect was sustained over a median longitudinal follow-up of 7 years. It would be interesting to detect whether a complex cognitive training could show similar effects on the cognitive abilities of patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) as it has been reported in previous studies based on mentally stimulating activities analysis.
 The hypothesis is that a complex cognitive training alters the neural networks in both subject groups and this alteration is associated with improvement or stabilization of cognitive and non-cognitive function.
 The investigator will perform a complex cognitive training program. Twenty patients with mild AD and twenty four patients with MCI will be recruited in this study. The patients will be randomised in control- and treatment groups.Additionally indirect effects on non-cognitive functions will be evaluated in caregivers of the patients.
 The investigators expect that the cognitive and non-cognitive abilities will be changed during the cognitive training. The investigators also expect differences between treatment and control groups.

>>NCT00305903
This is a prospective, 26-week, open-label, single-arm multi-center pilot study. Eligible patients will receive open-label treatment with rivastigmine capsules plus memantine tablets as add on therapy. This study is designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of add on therapy with memantine to rivastigmine capsules in patients with probable AD (MMSE 10-20).

>>NCT01227252
This is a Phase 1 study in healthy subjects to evaluate the safety and tolerability of LY2886721 multiple doses, how the body handles the drug and the drug's effect on the body.

>>NCT02432222
The study will use a randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of two interventions (visual arts and music) for individuals with dementia, focusing on dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT). Interventions will be run for 10 weeks in dementia day centers and/or retirement residences. Participants will be tested before and after the intervention on a battery of cognitive, affective and behavioural measures. They will be compared to a waitlist control group who don't receive the intervention.
 The purpose of our research is twofold: treatment of symptoms and improved quality of life during disease progression in dementia. For the primary aim, the investigators are examining the potential of arts interventions on declining functions in dementia (memory, mood and behavior) to investigate potential treatment effects. Secondly, quality of life will be measured, with the aim of looking beyond disease progression to contribute to an overall positive patient experience. Research has indicated the need for non-pharmacological treatments to be used as a first line of action against dementia symptoms and development. While, in best practice, pharmacological treatments should be used as a second-line approach.
 Note: Music intervention dropped prior to study initiation. The study will use a randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of two interventions (visual arts and music) for individuals with dementia, focusing on dementia of the Alzheimer's type (DAT). Interventions will be run for 10 weeks in dementia day centers and/or retirement residences. Participants will be tested before and after the intervention on a battery of cognitive, affective and behavioural measures. They will be compared to a waitlist control group who don't receive the intervention.
 The purpose of our research is twofold: treatment of symptoms and improved quality of life during disease progression in dementia. For the primary aim, the investigators are examining the potential of arts interventions on declining functions in dementia (memory, mood and behavior) to investigate potential treatment effects. Secondly, quality of life will be measured, with the aim of looking beyond disease progression to contribute to an overall positive patient experience. Research has indicated the need for non-pharmacological treatments to be used as a first line of action against dementia symptoms and development. While, in best practice, pharmacological treatments should be used as a second-line approach.
 Note: Music intervention dropped prior to study initiation.

>>NCT00036114
The purpose of this study is to learn if aripiprazole is safe and effective in the treatment of psychosis associated with dementia of the Alzheimer's type.

>>NCT02767609
This study will test a new MRI sequence that measures cerebral blood flow (CBF). Because this technique for measuring CBF is new, there is little information on what the normal values for different regions of the brain should be. Information from the study will be used to establish normative CBF values for the brain, improving the reliable use of this technique for the diagnosis of brain injury or disease.

>>NCT02442765
Patients with agitation secondary to dementia of the Alzheimer's type. The diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) will be based on the '2011 Diagnostic Guidelines for Alzheimer's Disease' issued by the National Institute on Aging (NIA)-Alzheimer's Association (AA) workgroups. Patients with agitation secondary to dementia of the Alzheimer's type. The diagnosis of probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) will be based on the '2011 Diagnostic Guidelines for Alzheimer's Disease' issued by the National Institute on Aging (NIA)-Alzheimer's Association (AA) workgroups.

>>NCT00571064
This is a study to determine the effectiveness and safety of donepezil hydrochloride (E2020) used to treat residents of assisted living facilities diagnosed with mild, moderate or severe stage Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00301574
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two fixed doses (16mg/day and 24mg/day) of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo for the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease and to investigate the dose-response. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of two fixed doses (16mg/day and 24mg/day) of galantamine (a drug for treating dementia) versus placebo for the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease and to investigate the dose-response.

>>NCT01009359
PET (positron emission tomography) imaging with BAY85-8102 F-18, DPA-714 for investigation of neuroinflammation pattern in probable Alzheimers patients versus healthy volunteers and radiation dosimetry in healthy volunteer.

>>NCT02247180
This study aims to proof the efficacy of a cognitive rehabilitation program for patients with mild dementia in Alzheimers Disease with respect to activities of daily living. This study aims to proof the efficacy of a cognitive rehabilitation program for patients with mild dementia in Alzheimers Disease with respect to activities of daily living.

>>NCT01953601
This study consists of two parts, Part I and Part II. The purpose of Part I of the study is to assess the efficacy and safety of verubecestat (MK-8931) compared with placebo administered for 104 weeks in the treatment of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) due to Alzheimer's Disease (AD), also known as prodromal AD. Participants will be randomized to receive placebo or 12 mg or 40 mg verubecestat, once daily. The primary study hypothesis for Part 1 is that at least one verubecestat dose is superior to placebo with respect to the change from baseline in the Clinical Dementia Rating scale-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) score at 104 weeks. Participants who complete Part I of the study may choose to participate in Part II, which is a long term double-blind extension to assess efficacy and safety of verubecestat administered for up to an additional 260 weeks. In Part II, all participants will receive either 12 mg or 40 mg verubecestat, once daily. This study consists of two parts, Part I and Part II. The purpose of Part I of the study is to assess the efficacy and safety of verubecestat (MK-8931) compared with placebo administered for 104 weeks in the treatment of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) due to Alzheimer's Disease (AD), also known as prodromal AD. Participants will be randomized to receive placebo or 12 mg or 40 mg verubecestat, once daily. The primary study hypothesis for Part 1 is that at least one verubecestat dose is superior to placebo with respect to the change from baseline in the Clinical Dementia Rating scale-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) score at 104 weeks. Participants who complete Part I of the study may choose to participate in Part II, which is a long term double-blind extension to assess efficacy and safety of verubecestat administered for up to an additional 260 weeks. In Part II, all participants will receive either 12 mg or 40 mg verubecestat, once daily.

>>NCT02564692
The purpose of the Alzheimer's Prevention Registry GeneMatch program is to identify a large group of people interested in participating in research studies or clinical trials based in part on their genetic background. This genetic information will be used to match interested individuals to studies, providing a recruitment resource to the Alzheimer's scientific community. Interested individuals should visit www.endALZnow.org/GeneMatch to join the GeneMatch program. The purpose of the Alzheimer's Prevention Registry GeneMatch program is to identify a large group of people interested in participating in research studies or clinical trials based in part on their genetic background. This genetic information will be used to match interested individuals to studies, providing a recruitment resource to the Alzheimer's scientific community. Interested individuals should visit www.endALZnow.org/GeneMatch to join the GeneMatch program.

>>NCT00416078
This study is piloting an internet-based intervention to provide support for caregivers of VA patients with Alzheimer's disease or related memory difficulties (ADRD). Veterans with a clinical diagnosis of ADRD and their caregiver/relatives will be randomized to receive one of two interventions: (1) customary care (cc) and access to an intensive, interactive online education and support website intervention for 6 months or (2) cc and monthly brief telephone calls with project staff for six month. It is hypothesized that participation in the intensive intervention will result in a reductions in patient problematic behavior and caregiver responses to it, reduced caregiver burden and depression and improved medication adherence at the end of treatment and more patients remaining at home through the 12 months post-randomization period.. This study is piloting an internet-based intervention to provide support for caregivers of VA patients with Alzheimer's disease or related memory difficulties (ADRD). Veterans with a clinical diagnosis of ADRD and their caregiver/relatives will be randomized to receive one of two interventions: (1) customary care (cc) and access to an intensive, interactive online education and support website intervention for 6 months or (2) cc and monthly brief telephone calls with project staff for six month. It is hypothesized that participation in the intensive intervention will result in a reductions in patient problematic behavior and caregiver responses to it, reduced caregiver burden and depression and improved medication adherence at the end of treatment and more patients remaining at home through the 12 months post-randomization period..

>>NCT02752750
In this explorative longitudinal study 50 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 50 age-matched control subjects will be recruited for their 2 years follow-ups and undergo extensive cognitive testing and quantitative 3 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Regional differences of susceptibility and R2* relaxation rates in deep gray matter and the neocortex will be evaluated in AD patients and controls and related to the patients cognitive status at baseline. In this explorative longitudinal study 50 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 50 age-matched control subjects will be recruited for their 2 years follow-ups and undergo extensive cognitive testing and quantitative 3 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Regional differences of susceptibility and R2* relaxation rates in deep gray matter and the neocortex will be evaluated in AD patients and controls and related to the patients cognitive status at baseline.

>>NCT02063308
By doing this study, researchers hope to learn how much oxaloacetate (OAA) ends up in the blood after OAA capsules are swallowed and to assess whether persons with Alzheimer's disease who take OAA for one month have any side-effects.

>>NCT00407576
Alzheimer's disease is associated with accumulation in the brain of a protein called amyloid. The purpose of this study is to test the ability of a research drug to measure amyloid in brain using positron emission tomography (PET) and a research drug called [11C]MeS-IMPY. Alzheimer's disease is associated with accumulation in the brain of a protein called amyloid. The purpose of this study is to test the ability of a research drug to measure amyloid in brain using positron emission tomography (PET) and a research drug called [11C]MeS-IMPY.

>>NCT01421420
The main objective of this research project is to provide a comprehensive clinical database of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other forms of dementia, individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and age-matched normal controls. The study will also attempt to identify cognitively normal individuals at genetically defined risk for Alzheimer's disease through genetic screening.
 All participants are seen annually. Autopsies to establish diagnoses in patients with dementia, patients with mild MCI and cognitively normal elderly control subjects will also be conducted. The main objective of this research project is to provide a comprehensive clinical database of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other forms of dementia, individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and age-matched normal controls. The study will also attempt to identify cognitively normal individuals at genetically defined risk for Alzheimer's disease through genetic screening.
 All participants are seen annually. Autopsies to establish diagnoses in patients with dementia, patients with mild MCI and cognitively normal elderly control subjects will also be conducted.

>>NCT01892579
Over 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia, a progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative condition, affecting also close to 15 million family caregivers (CG). A hallmark of the disease and one of the most significant challenges in dementia care is neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) of which agitation is the most disabling and frequently occurring. It is associated with increased health care costs, reduced life quality, heightened caregiver burden, disease acceleration and nursing home placement. Treatment typically involves pharmacologic agents; however, these are at best modestly effective, carry serious risks including mortality and may not reduce family distress. Recently issued position statements from medical organizations suggest nonpharmacologic strategies as first-line treatment. Nevertheless, nonpharmacological strategies for agitation remain understudied. We propose a Phase III efficacy trial to test a novel 8-session patient-centric intervention, the Tailored Activity Program. We will test the program using a randomized two-group parallel design of 250 people with dementia (PwD) and their CGs (dyads) who will be randomly assigned to received a program of tailored activities or a control intervention of equivalent in-home attention and social contact. The trial assesses PwDs' preserved capabilities, deficits, previous roles, habits, interests and home environment from which activities are developed to match PwD profiles. Families are trained to implement activities and modify them for future decline. Our primary study aim evaluates the effect of tailored activities at 3 months on agitation (Hypothesis: PwD in the tailored activity program will have less frequent agitation compared to the control intervention condition. Three secondary aims evaluate: 1) 6-month effects of tailored activities on agitation and quality of life in PwD (Hypothesis: PwD receiving tailored activities will manifest lower severity scores at 6 months and better quality of life compared to PwD in the control intervention); 2) Immediate effects of tailored activities at 3 and 6 months on CG wellbeing and time spent providing care (Hypothesis: CGs receiving training in tailoring activities will report enhanced wellbeing and less time caregiving compared to the control intervention (3 and 6 months); and 3) Cost effectiveness of the Tailored Activity Program expressed as an incremental cost outcome achieved in the form of CG burden reductions and willingness to pay for burden reductions (3 and 6 months; Hypothesis: Tailoring activities will be cost effective compared to the control intervention at each test occasion). Exploratory aims will evaluate treatment effects on psychotropic medication use and other troublesome behaviors, if effects differ by cognitive status, if CGs receiving the tailored activity program will use activities at 6 months and with what frequency, how time gained is spent and if frequency/duration of treatment and activity use affects outcomes. If proven efficacious and cost effective, the Tailored Activity Program has potential to transform clinical practice by offering a proven nonpharmacologic treatment for agitation of PwDs at home. This trial addresses a critical clinical need and public health priority identified by recent legislative activity. Over 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease or a related dementia, a progressive and irreversible neurodegenerative condition, affecting also close to 15 million family caregivers (CG). A hallmark of the disease and one of the most significant challenges in dementia care is neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) of which agitation is the most disabling and frequently occurring. It is associated with increased health care costs, reduced life quality, heightened caregiver burden, disease acceleration and nursing home placement. Treatment typically involves pharmacologic agents; however, these are at best modestly effective, carry serious risks including mortality and may not reduce family distress. Recently issued position statements from medical organizations suggest nonpharmacologic strategies as first-line treatment. Nevertheless, nonpharmacological strategies for agitation remain understudied. We propose a Phase III efficacy trial to test a novel 8-session patient-centric intervention, the Tailored Activity Program. We will test the program using a randomized two-group parallel design of 250 people with dementia (PwD) and their CGs (dyads) who will be randomly assigned to received a program of tailored activities or a control intervention of equivalent in-home attention and social contact. The trial assesses PwDs' preserved capabilities, deficits, previous roles, habits, interests and home environment from which activities are developed to match PwD profiles. Families are trained to implement activities and modify them for future decline. Our primary study aim evaluates the effect of tailored activities at 3 months on agitation (Hypothesis: PwD in the tailored activity program will have less frequent agitation compared to the control intervention condition. Three secondary aims evaluate: 1) 6-month effects of tailored activities on agitation and quality of life in PwD (Hypothesis: PwD receiving tailored activities will manifest lower severity scores at 6 months and better quality of life compared to PwD in the control intervention); 2) Immediate effects of tailored activities at 3 and 6 months on CG wellbeing and time spent providing care (Hypothesis: CGs receiving training in tailoring activities will report enhanced wellbeing and less time caregiving compared to the control intervention (3 and 6 months); and 3) Cost effectiveness of the Tailored Activity Program expressed as an incremental cost outcome achieved in the form of CG burden reductions and willingness to pay for burden reductions (3 and 6 months; Hypothesis: Tailoring activities will be cost effective compared to the control intervention at each test occasion). Exploratory aims will evaluate treatment effects on psychotropic medication use and other troublesome behaviors, if effects differ by cognitive status, if CGs receiving the tailored activity program will use activities at 6 months and with what frequency, how time gained is spent and if frequency/duration of treatment and activity use affects outcomes. If proven efficacious and cost effective, the Tailored Activity Program has potential to transform clinical practice by offering a proven nonpharmacologic treatment for agitation of PwDs at home. This trial addresses a critical clinical need and public health priority identified by recent legislative activity.

>>NCT02524405
The main objectives for this study are:.
 1. To investigate three novel, non-invasive ocular measurements in a cross-sectional study of participants with various neurodegenerative dementias against standard cognitive assessments and brain imaging measures; and.
 2. To assess the potential utility of ocular assessments for early detection in the pre-dementia, i.e. the so-called Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) stage. The main objectives for this study are:.
 1. To investigate three novel, non-invasive ocular measurements in a cross-sectional study of participants with various neurodegenerative dementias against standard cognitive assessments and brain imaging measures; and.
 2. To assess the potential utility of ocular assessments for early detection in the pre-dementia, i.e. the so-called Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) stage.

>>NCT02530255
A method of detecting amyloid in the retina has been developed. A specially designed retinal camera will directly visualze and record retinal amyloid and via image processing will generate a number: the retinal amyloid index (RAI). The amount of retinal amyloid correlates with cerebral amyloid and has a predictive value in Alzheimer's disease.
 Telomere attrition accounts for cellular aging and is felt to have a pivotal role in Alzheimer's disease. The investigators plan to screen individuals to select those having retinal amyloid then evaluate an oral telomerase activator to determine if its use can alter the RAI over time compared to placebo. A method of detecting amyloid in the retina has been developed. A specially designed retinal camera will directly visualze and record retinal amyloid and via image processing will generate a number: the retinal amyloid index (RAI). The amount of retinal amyloid correlates with cerebral amyloid and has a predictive value in Alzheimer's disease.
 Telomere attrition accounts for cellular aging and is felt to have a pivotal role in Alzheimer's disease. The investigators plan to screen individuals to select those having retinal amyloid then evaluate an oral telomerase activator to determine if its use can alter the RAI over time compared to placebo.

>>NCT02813070
This was a Phase 2, multicenter study to assess the extent and patterns of [18F]flutemetamol uptake in the brains of 3 groups of Japanese subjects: HV, aMCI and pAD and to assess the reproducibility of brain uptake and of image interpretation. Subjects underwent open-label intravenous (i.v.) administration of Flutemetamol F 18 Injection and PET imaging of the brain. Blinded visual image reads were performed by 10 independent board-certified readers (5 Japanese and 5 non-Japanese) with nuclear medicine image interpretation experience. The blinded visual assessments were compared with the subject's clinical diagnoses and the agreement between the image interpretations made by the 2 groups of readers (Japanese and non-Japanese) was determined. This was a Phase 2, multicenter study to assess the extent and patterns of [18F]flutemetamol uptake in the brains of 3 groups of Japanese subjects: HV, aMCI and pAD and to assess the reproducibility of brain uptake and of image interpretation. Subjects underwent open-label intravenous (i.v.) administration of Flutemetamol F 18 Injection and PET imaging of the brain. Blinded visual image reads were performed by 10 independent board-certified readers (5 Japanese and 5 non-Japanese) with nuclear medicine image interpretation experience. The blinded visual assessments were compared with the subject's clinical diagnoses and the agreement between the image interpretations made by the 2 groups of readers (Japanese and non-Japanese) was determined.

>>NCT02292238
General Investigational Plan.
 Study Objectives The goal of this proposal is to determine whether enhancing brain glucose utilization minimizes cognitive decline in patients with Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (AMCI) or mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. We propose a proof of concept double-blind, placebo controlled pilot study to determine if increasing brain thiamine availability with the investigational new drug benfotiamine, will minimize the decline in glucose utilization and slow the cognitive decline associated with the progression AMCI/AD dementia.
 Specifically, our objectives are two-fold:.
 - To test whether increasing brain thiamine by administering 600 mg per day (300 mg/morning and 300 mg/evening) of benfotiamine for one year can slow cognitive decline in these patients as measured with the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-COG).
 - To determine whether increasing brain thiamine availability with 600 mg (300 mg/morning and 300 mg/evening) per day of benfotiamine for one year can slow the decline in brain glucose metabolism in these patients as measured with Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography(FGPET) in the posterior cingulate.
 We will also carry out the following secondary objectives:.
 - Assess if there are differences in secondary clinical outcome measures (NPI, ADCSADL, CDR, Buschke) between benfotiamine and placebo groups and whether specific cognitive domains (ie: activities of daily living, learning and memory verbal memory, behavioral, etc.) are driving these changes.
 - Compare ADAS-COG change scores in the benfotiamine and placebo groups within and between strata that were defined by initial cognitive impairment, to attempt to identified the population that most benefits from benfotiamine.
 - Compare changes in glucose utilization between the benfotiamine and placebo groups in secondary Regions of Interest (ROIs) including the hippocampus, prefrontal regions and entorhinal cortex.
 - Compare changes in whole brain glucose utilization between the benfotiamine and placebo groups using statistical parametric mapping (SPM).
 - Assess the correlation between changes in glucose utilization with changes in ADAS Cog.
 - Determine if ApoE4 genotype alters the response to benfotiamine. General Investigational Plan.
 Study Objectives The goal of this proposal is to determine whether enhancing brain glucose utilization minimizes cognitive decline in patients with Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (AMCI) or mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. We propose a proof of concept double-blind, placebo controlled pilot study to determine if increasing brain thiamine availability with the investigational new drug benfotiamine, will minimize the decline in glucose utilization and slow the cognitive decline associated with the progression AMCI/AD dementia.
 Specifically, our objectives are two-fold:.
 - To test whether increasing brain thiamine by administering 600 mg per day (300 mg/morning and 300 mg/evening) of benfotiamine for one year can slow cognitive decline in these patients as measured with the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-COG).
 - To determine whether increasing brain thiamine availability with 600 mg (300 mg/morning and 300 mg/evening) per day of benfotiamine for one year can slow the decline in brain glucose metabolism in these patients as measured with Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography(FGPET) in the posterior cingulate.
 We will also carry out the following secondary objectives:.
 - Assess if there are differences in secondary clinical outcome measures (NPI, ADCSADL, CDR, Buschke) between benfotiamine and placebo groups and whether specific cognitive domains (ie: activities of daily living, learning and memory verbal memory, behavioral, etc.) are driving these changes.
 - Compare ADAS-COG change scores in the benfotiamine and placebo groups within and between strata that were defined by initial cognitive impairment, to attempt to identified the population that most benefits from benfotiamine.
 - Compare changes in glucose utilization between the benfotiamine and placebo groups in secondary Regions of Interest (ROIs) including the hippocampus, prefrontal regions and entorhinal cortex.
 - Compare changes in whole brain glucose utilization between the benfotiamine and placebo groups using statistical parametric mapping (SPM).
 - Assess the correlation between changes in glucose utilization with changes in ADAS Cog.
 - Determine if ApoE4 genotype alters the response to benfotiamine.

>>NCT01926249
A Multicenter national prospective cohort study including at least 2300 individuals consecutively recruited from French Research Memory Centers and followed-up over 5 years. A Multicenter national prospective cohort study including at least 2300 individuals consecutively recruited from French Research Memory Centers and followed-up over 5 years.

>>NCT02772523
Recent epidemiologic studies are identifying a number of modifiable risk and protective factors that may influence in the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, the combination of an early detection of individuals at risk together with interventional studies targeted to the control of modifiable risk factors makes primary prevention programmes to become a new and real therapeutic strategy.
 In this scenario, the investigators have designed the ALFAlife study, a programme of control and intervention on the modifiable AD risk factors. Throughout this study, participants will be given a number of healthy lifestyle guidelines that are personalised depending on their specific risk profile. These guidelines refer to smoking and dietary habits and physical, cognitive and social activity. The investigators hypothesis is that the follow-up of these guidelines will favor a change of participants' lifestyle habits towards healthier ones. In addition, the investigators hypothesise that changes in these lifestyle habits will have an effect on objective physiological measures (such as blood pressure and cholesterol levels).

>>NCT02031198
This follow-up study continues to observe patients who have completed the phase 1 trial of AADvac1, for another 18 months.
 Long-term safety and behavior of the immune response to AADvac1 over time are the main points of interest.
 AADvac1 is a vaccine directed against pathologically modified Alzheimer tau protein that is the main constituent of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and is intended to be a disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer's disease, i.e. to halt its progress.
 As this study is a Phase I study focused on tolerability and safety, efficacy will be assessed in an exploratory manner. This follow-up study continues to observe patients who have completed the phase 1 trial of AADvac1, for another 18 months.
 Long-term safety and behavior of the immune response to AADvac1 over time are the main points of interest.
 AADvac1 is a vaccine directed against pathologically modified Alzheimer tau protein that is the main constituent of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and is intended to be a disease-modifying treatment for Alzheimer's disease, i.e. to halt its progress.
 As this study is a Phase I study focused on tolerability and safety, efficacy will be assessed in an exploratory manner.

>>NCT00959881
This study examines the cardiac effects (effects on the heart) of administering donepezil and begacestat together to healthy subjects.

>>NCT02686554
At the time of biomarker-substantiated diagnosis for a given AD patient it remains unclear to what extent the disease will devastate cognitive abilities within the next years. This is not only unsatisfying for the patient and the attending physician but also a major problem in the context of clinical trials that aim to establish new therapeutic agents. In clinical trials it is critically important to foresee as precisely as possible the course of the disease. The overall aim of the subproject is to identify a panel of CSF biomarkers to further improve specificity of diagnosis ("disease markers"), to measure disease activity and to predict AD progression ("stage and progression markers"). At the time of biomarker-substantiated diagnosis for a given AD patient it remains unclear to what extent the disease will devastate cognitive abilities within the next years. This is not only unsatisfying for the patient and the attending physician but also a major problem in the context of clinical trials that aim to establish new therapeutic agents. In clinical trials it is critically important to foresee as precisely as possible the course of the disease. The overall aim of the subproject is to identify a panel of CSF biomarkers to further improve specificity of diagnosis ("disease markers"), to measure disease activity and to predict AD progression ("stage and progression markers").

>>NCT00056628
This is a study of the effect on the progression of Alzheimer's Disease of a surgically implanted shunt (tube) to increase the flow of cerebrospinal fluid and improve the clearance of potential neurotoxins from the fluid bathing the brain. This is a study of the effect on the progression of Alzheimer's Disease of a surgically implanted shunt (tube) to increase the flow of cerebrospinal fluid and improve the clearance of potential neurotoxins from the fluid bathing the brain.

>>NCT00240695
The purpose of this follow-up study is to assess the long-term safety and tolerability of galantamine in individuals with mild cognitive impairment who participated in a previous study with galantamine The purpose of this follow-up study is to assess the long-term safety and tolerability of galantamine in individuals with mild cognitive impairment who participated in a previous study with galantamine.

>>NCT02365051
This community-based translational trial tests the value of a proven non-pharmacologic intervention for older adults living with dementia and informal caregivers when this intervention is incorporated into a publicly-funded home and community based service program. Half the participants will receive customary publicly-funded services alone and half will receive customary services plus the proven non-pharmacologic intervention. This community-based translational trial tests the value of a proven non-pharmacologic intervention for older adults living with dementia and informal caregivers when this intervention is incorporated into a publicly-funded home and community based service program. Half the participants will receive customary publicly-funded services alone and half will receive customary services plus the proven non-pharmacologic intervention.

>>NCT02029547
This study is designed to validate the Japanese electronic florbetapir (18F) interpretation training program intended for post-approval implementation in Japan.

>>NCT00646074
Most individuals with Alzheimer's or dementia return home, where their care is supported by family and friends. Although family caring at home is usually rewarding, it is often challenging, too. The demands and responsibilities of caring for a loved one at home can be stressful. The actual activities of caregiving vary according to the needs of the individual but can include helping with bathing, dressing, eating and many other activities. Caregivers must learn care techniques and how to manage changes in roles and lifestyle. While adjusting to these changes, caregivers may be advised to 'take care' of themselves but may not receive guidance or support for doing this. In this study, we are testing a self-care intervention for older, spouse caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's or dementia to see how helpful the intervention is in reducing distress and in helping caregivers adopt and maintain healthy lifestyle behaviors.
 We have developed an intervention for caregivers that is called Self-Care TALK. The intervention includes creating a health-promoting, self-care education and support partnership between caregivers and nurses through the use of weekly telephone conversations. Each conversation focuses on a health-related topic, such as: healthy habits, building self-esteem, focusing on the positive, avoiding role overload, communicating and building meaning. The conversations follow a basic format but also are unique to each person. Participants complete questionnaires before and after the intervention, so that we can test the effect of participation in Self-Care TALK on caregiver health.
 We know that education and support about self-care can be achieved through partnerships between family caregivers and health care professionals. Our goal is to build on this knowledge in testing whether participation in the Self-Care TALK intervention will result in less distress and better health and well-being for spouse caregivers, compared to caregivers who receive no additional care beyond usual education and support. In working toward this goal, we are using a partnership approach, in which nurses and caregivers discuss several health-related topics and mutually identify creative solutions for caregivers to incorporate self-care and health-promotion strategies into their daily routines. Promoting healthy outcomes for caregivers is essential to supporting their personal well-being and to fostering their ability to continue home care for their loved one. Most individuals with Alzheimer's or dementia return home, where their care is supported by family and friends. Although family caring at home is usually rewarding, it is often challenging, too. The demands and responsibilities of caring for a loved one at home can be stressful. The actual activities of caregiving vary according to the needs of the individual but can include helping with bathing, dressing, eating and many other activities. Caregivers must learn care techniques and how to manage changes in roles and lifestyle. While adjusting to these changes, caregivers may be advised to 'take care' of themselves but may not receive guidance or support for doing this. In this study, we are testing a self-care intervention for older, spouse caregivers of persons with Alzheimer's or dementia to see how helpful the intervention is in reducing distress and in helping caregivers adopt and maintain healthy lifestyle behaviors.
 We have developed an intervention for caregivers that is called Self-Care TALK. The intervention includes creating a health-promoting, self-care education and support partnership between caregivers and nurses through the use of weekly telephone conversations. Each conversation focuses on a health-related topic, such as: healthy habits, building self-esteem, focusing on the positive, avoiding role overload, communicating and building meaning. The conversations follow a basic format but also are unique to each person. Participants complete questionnaires before and after the intervention, so that we can test the effect of participation in Self-Care TALK on caregiver health.
 We know that education and support about self-care can be achieved through partnerships between family caregivers and health care professionals. Our goal is to build on this knowledge in testing whether participation in the Self-Care TALK intervention will result in less distress and better health and well-being for spouse caregivers, compared to caregivers who receive no additional care beyond usual education and support. In working toward this goal, we are using a partnership approach, in which nurses and caregivers discuss several health-related topics and mutually identify creative solutions for caregivers to incorporate self-care and health-promotion strategies into their daily routines. Promoting healthy outcomes for caregivers is essential to supporting their personal well-being and to fostering their ability to continue home care for their loved one.

>>NCT02360527
A clear association between type 2 diabetes (T2D) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been reported. This association is independent of vascular impairment and therefore, it could be attributed to neurodegeneration triggered or accelerated by diabetes itself. At present there are no methods to identify T2D patients at risk for developing AD. The retina shares many features with the brain and, therefore, has been suggested as an easily accessible way of examining pathology in the brain. In fact, many patients with AD present retinal abnormalities. However, the diagnosis of diabetes, a condition frequently associated with retinal neurodegeneration, has not been considered. On this basis, the final aim of this proposal is to identify diabetic patients at risk for developing AD based on the assessment of retinal neurodegeneration by means of non-invasive tests. Specific aims: 1) To compare the prevalence of morphological and functional abnormalities related to retinal neurodegeneration among three groups of T2D patients: patients with AD, patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and patients without AD or MCI. 2) To assess whether the retinal neurodegenerative features are related to severity of AD. 3) To explore whether the combined retinal neurodegeneration in diabetic patients with AD has a different functional and/or morphological pattern in comparison with neurodegeneration secondary to diabetes alone. Methods: Case-control study. Retinal neurodegeneration will be assessed by mutifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). The potential confounders will be considered in data analyses. Feasibility: A unique multidisciplinary consortium has been created in order to warrant the feasibility of the project Expected impact: This innovative approach will fill a gap that currently exist in the health care system and will reduce the economic burden associated with T2D patients with AD. In addition, this project would be the backbone for future prospective studies. A clear association between type 2 diabetes (T2D) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been reported. This association is independent of vascular impairment and therefore, it could be attributed to neurodegeneration triggered or accelerated by diabetes itself. At present there are no methods to identify T2D patients at risk for developing AD. The retina shares many features with the brain and, therefore, has been suggested as an easily accessible way of examining pathology in the brain. In fact, many patients with AD present retinal abnormalities. However, the diagnosis of diabetes, a condition frequently associated with retinal neurodegeneration, has not been considered. On this basis, the final aim of this proposal is to identify diabetic patients at risk for developing AD based on the assessment of retinal neurodegeneration by means of non-invasive tests. Specific aims: 1) To compare the prevalence of morphological and functional abnormalities related to retinal neurodegeneration among three groups of T2D patients: patients with AD, patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and patients without AD or MCI. 2) To assess whether the retinal neurodegenerative features are related to severity of AD. 3) To explore whether the combined retinal neurodegeneration in diabetic patients with AD has a different functional and/or morphological pattern in comparison with neurodegeneration secondary to diabetes alone. Methods: Case-control study. Retinal neurodegeneration will be assessed by mutifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) and spectral domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT). The potential confounders will be considered in data analyses. Feasibility: A unique multidisciplinary consortium has been created in order to warrant the feasibility of the project Expected impact: This innovative approach will fill a gap that currently exist in the health care system and will reduce the economic burden associated with T2D patients with AD. In addition, this project would be the backbone for future prospective studies.

>>NCT02051790
This study is designed to evaluate the agreement between florbetapir F 18 scan interpretation in the clinic and by expert readers.

>>NCT01044758
This research is being done to find out if daily use of the drug levetiracetam can improve memory function in individuals with memory problems like those associated with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). This research is being done to find out if daily use of the drug levetiracetam can improve memory function in individuals with memory problems like those associated with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD).

>>NCT01097096
This study will assess the safety, tolerability and Abeta-specific antibody response of repeated intra-muscular injections of adjuvanted CAD106 in patients with mild Alzheimer's Disease.

>>NCT02035982
There are few pharmacological treatments available for Alzheimer's disease, including drugs called cholinesterase inhibitors: donepezil, galantamine and rivastigmine. In research trials, cholinesterase inhibitors have been shown to improve memory and problem behaviours in people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease. However, these benefits may not extend to the real-world when taking into account nursing home and health care costs. There is less information on the use of cholinesterase inhibitors in people with severe Alzheimer's disease. In Canada, only donepezil is recommended for the treatment of severe Alzheimer's disease. However, there is no information on whether the benefits that donepezil provides to people with severe Alzheimer's disease are sustained over the long term. Moreover, while the tolerability of cholinesterase inhibitors is generally acceptable, their use is not completely harmless. Common side effects include nausea, diarrhea, insomnia, vomiting, muscle cramping, fatigue and loss of appetite.
 In Ontario, cholinesterase inhibitor users tend to remain on these medications for two years or more and often until death. The current cholinesterase inhibitor guidelines provide details on what medication should be used, when it should be started and how it should be monitored but there is less clarity on when it is safe and appropriate to stop treatment. The cessation of cholinesterase inhibitors in patients no longer appearing to display any clear benefits may help to lower the risk of unpleasant side effects, lower the use of multiple medications and reduce the costs of caring for individuals with Alzheimer's disease. However, the cessation of cholinesterase inhibitor therapy may run the risk of deterioration in memory, worsening or development of behavioural symptoms and the placement of additional demands on professional and unpaid caregivers.
 There is a clear need for guidelines when to stop cholinesterase inhibitor treatment, especially for patients in whom the benefits of not be on the medication will outweigh the risks. The purpose of this study is to address this issue by collecting data which may be helpful in predicting which types of patients may benefit from stopping cholinesterase inhibitor treatment. Understanding when and for whom, it is appropriate to stop cholinesterase inhibitor treatment will influence the field of pharmacology in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT00800709
In AD, tau protein is abnormally hyperphosphorylated. Significant changes of hyperphosphorylated tau levels in CSF are found in AD patients. It has been shown in vitro that memantine can reverse abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau in hippocampal neurons of rats. A statistically significant reduction of CSF phosphorylated tau at a preliminary 1-year follow-up was observed, from median 126 (interquartile range 107-153) to 108 (88-133) ng/l (p = 0.018). No statistically significant differences of total tau or A42 were found (Gunnarsson MD, 2007).
 FDG-PET has the unique ability to estimate the local cerebral metabolic rate of glucose consumption, thus providing information on the distribution of neuronal death and synapse dysfunction in AD in vivo (Herholz K. 2003). Synaptic dysfunction and loss induce a reduction in neuronal energy demand that results in decreased glucose metabolism. Hypometabolism in AD is thought to reflect loss of synaptic activity and density (Herholz K. 2003; Mielke R, et al. 1998).
 Another biological markers such as inflammatory factor and APOE4 also play a part in the onset of AD (Glodzik-Sobanska L, 2007). In AD, tau protein is abnormally hyperphosphorylated. Significant changes of hyperphosphorylated tau levels in CSF are found in AD patients. It has been shown in vitro that memantine can reverse abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau in hippocampal neurons of rats. A statistically significant reduction of CSF phosphorylated tau at a preliminary 1-year follow-up was observed, from median 126 (interquartile range 107-153) to 108 (88-133) ng/l (p = 0.018). No statistically significant differences of total tau or A42 were found (Gunnarsson MD, 2007).
 FDG-PET has the unique ability to estimate the local cerebral metabolic rate of glucose consumption, thus providing information on the distribution of neuronal death and synapse dysfunction in AD in vivo (Herholz K. 2003). Synaptic dysfunction and loss induce a reduction in neuronal energy demand that results in decreased glucose metabolism. Hypometabolism in AD is thought to reflect loss of synaptic activity and density (Herholz K. 2003; Mielke R, et al. 1998).
 Another biological markers such as inflammatory factor and APOE4 also play a part in the onset of AD (Glodzik-Sobanska L, 2007).

>>NCT00471211
The purpose of the study is to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of 2 doses of PBT2 administered for 12 weeks compared to placebo in patients with early Alzheimer's disease treated with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor.

>>NCT00691340
Glaucoma is a worldwide leading cause of blindness. The key feature of this ocular neuropathy is characterized by an excavating optic nerve head. Loss of retinal ganglion cells is the final end point in blinding diseases of the optic nerve such as glaucoma. It is known that neuronal cell death in glaucoma occurs by an apoptotic mechanism. In earlier studies the investigators could demonstrate that the process of apoptosis is reflected in circulating leukocytes by different parameters, like differential mRNA expression and an increased fragmentation of the DNA. Such alterations point out a relationship between cellular stress and apoptotic events.
 Based on the results of mRNA-expression the investigators also expect alterations on the protein level.
 This study is, therefore, designed to characterize the proteome related to the proteins involved in cell death related pathways.
 Thus, the expression pattern of several proteins in leukocytes from patients with primary open angle glaucoma will be analyzed by techniques like Western-blot and tandem mass spectrometry. These samples will be compared with samples from healthy controls. In addition, they will also be compared with samples from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Since glaucoma is a neurodegenerative disease, these patients will be included as positive controls in this study. Glaucoma is a worldwide leading cause of blindness. The key feature of this ocular neuropathy is characterized by an excavating optic nerve head. Loss of retinal ganglion cells is the final end point in blinding diseases of the optic nerve such as glaucoma. It is known that neuronal cell death in glaucoma occurs by an apoptotic mechanism. In earlier studies the investigators could demonstrate that the process of apoptosis is reflected in circulating leukocytes by different parameters, like differential mRNA expression and an increased fragmentation of the DNA. Such alterations point out a relationship between cellular stress and apoptotic events.
 Based on the results of mRNA-expression the investigators also expect alterations on the protein level.
 This study is, therefore, designed to characterize the proteome related to the proteins involved in cell death related pathways.
 Thus, the expression pattern of several proteins in leukocytes from patients with primary open angle glaucoma will be analyzed by techniques like Western-blot and tandem mass spectrometry. These samples will be compared with samples from healthy controls. In addition, they will also be compared with samples from patients with Alzheimer's disease. Since glaucoma is a neurodegenerative disease, these patients will be included as positive controls in this study.

>>NCT01351142
Amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are the 2 well-known etiopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Beside these 2 lesions, inflammation response is described in the brain of patients with AD.
 The main objective of our study is to analyse the correlation between the value of plasma cytokines (interleukin 1, 6, TNF and chemochine Rantes) and the rapidity of the cognitive decline in AD over a 2-year follow-up.
 Secondary objectives include:.
 - the predictive value of the cytokines on the cognitive decline after 6 months and one year of follow-up., of the patients include 150 patients with AD (MMSE: 16-25).
 - correlation between plasma cytokines levels and expression of the protein kinase PKR (involved in death cell) in blood mononuclear cells.

>>NCT02576821
Hippocampal Sclerosis (HS) leads to anterograde amnesia mimicking early Alzheimer's disease (AD) (so called HSA-nonAD). Recent studies showed that (a) the deficit of episodic memory as well as the level of hippocampal atrophy in bvFTD may be of similar severity to that observed in AD, even at initial presentation, leading to misdiagnosis in 22% of cases with post mortem diagnosis; (b) amnesia with HS due to microvascular lesion and microinfarcts can also cause impairment of episodic memory mimicking AD, without subcortical cognitive profile. Because these diseases involve distinct pathophysiological processes, they require different specific care and treatment. In consequence, it is very important to improve our knowledge about HS in order to identify its mechanism and improve the diagnosis. Hippocampal Sclerosis (HS) leads to anterograde amnesia mimicking early Alzheimer's disease (AD) (so called HSA-nonAD). Recent studies showed that (a) the deficit of episodic memory as well as the level of hippocampal atrophy in bvFTD may be of similar severity to that observed in AD, even at initial presentation, leading to misdiagnosis in 22% of cases with post mortem diagnosis; (b) amnesia with HS due to microvascular lesion and microinfarcts can also cause impairment of episodic memory mimicking AD, without subcortical cognitive profile. Because these diseases involve distinct pathophysiological processes, they require different specific care and treatment. In consequence, it is very important to improve our knowledge about HS in order to identify its mechanism and improve the diagnosis.

>>NCT00996918
The purpose of this study is to assess the long-term safety and tolerability of bapineuzumab in subjects with Alzheimer Disease who participated in study 3133K1-3000 (NCT00667810). Over 250 sites will participate in over 26 countries. Subjects will receive bapineuzumab. Each subject's participation will last approximately 4 years.

>>NCT00281749
A telephone call from a physician taking care of a patient in the hospital to a physician in the long term care setting at the time of discharge can improve transitional care for elderly patients. We believe direct communication between physicians can reduce re-hospitalizations, medication errors, morbidity and mortality. No studies have been done that involve physician-to-physician sign-outs after hospital discharge to the nursing home. In our study, we would like to address the breakdown in the transfer of information to the nursing home setting.

>>NCT01569997
Introduction: Epidemiological data show that in France only half of patients with Alzheimer disease are currently diagnosed in the general population. The absence of early diagnosis of dementia reduces the opportunities of patients to receive optimal care. One of the consequences of undiagnosed dementia is inadequate use of emergency care units.
 The main objective: The main aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of a systematic case-finding procedure of dementia cases in nursing homes through a MDTM on the rate of hospitalization in emergency care units.
 Secondary objectives:.
 To assess the impact of systematic tracking of dementia cases on the:.
 - Quantity and quality of drug-prescription.
 - Appropriateness of hospitalizations.
 - Prevalence of neuropsychiatric symptoms.
 - Dependency.
 - Quality of life.
 - Burden of nursing staff working conditions.
 - Planning of specific therapeutic measures.
 - Overall health care costs Introduction: Epidemiological data show that in France only half of patients with Alzheimer disease are currently diagnosed in the general population. The absence of early diagnosis of dementia reduces the opportunities of patients to receive optimal care. One of the consequences of undiagnosed dementia is inadequate use of emergency care units.
 The main objective: The main aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of a systematic case-finding procedure of dementia cases in nursing homes through a MDTM on the rate of hospitalization in emergency care units.
 Secondary objectives:.
 To assess the impact of systematic tracking of dementia cases on the:.
 - Quantity and quality of drug-prescription.
 - Appropriateness of hospitalizations.
 - Prevalence of neuropsychiatric symptoms.
 - Dependency.
 - Quality of life.
 - Burden of nursing staff working conditions.
 - Planning of specific therapeutic measures.
 - Overall health care costs.

>>NCT02353884
The purpose of this study is to find the characteristics of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) using technology of Multi-Modality MRI , including structural MRI, functional MRI and diffusion tensor imaging(DTI). Then analyze the difference between progressive MCI (MCIp) and stable MCI (MCIs) and further construct the predictable classifier from MCI to Alzheimer's disease (AD) based on Multi-Modality MRI characteristics of MCI patients. The purpose of this study is to find the characteristics of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) using technology of Multi-Modality MRI , including structural MRI, functional MRI and diffusion tensor imaging(DTI). Then analyze the difference between progressive MCI (MCIp) and stable MCI (MCIs) and further construct the predictable classifier from MCI to Alzheimer's disease (AD) based on Multi-Modality MRI characteristics of MCI patients.

>>NCT02000583
The purpose of this study is to learn about the possible benefits of aerobic exercise in controlling or reducing the amount of amyloid present in the brain, reducing changes in brain structure that may lead to Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and increasing cognitive ability in individuals that have amyloid deposits and are at risk to develop AD.

>>NCT01369225
This is a study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of AAB-003 (PF-05236812) in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's Disease. Patients who complete study B2601001 may participate in this trial and receive AAB-003 (PF-05236812). Each patient's participation will last approximately 52 weeks.

>>NCT01559220
The purpose of this clinical study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of deep brain stimulation (DBS)as a treatment option for patients with cognitive, behavioral and functional disability of Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT01886820
To Determine the the Efficacy and Safety of [18F]NAV4694 PET for Detection of Cerebral -Amyloid When Compared With Postmortem Histopathology.

>>NCT02778438
REINVENT is a non-interventional, multi-center, research network-based cross-over study evaluating the potential utility of a telehealth platform in improving the efficiency of clinical trials. The study aims to enroll 30 subjects from primary care practices coordinated through a single main study site. Potential subjects will be screened and randomized (1:1) at Visit 1 into a 2-period crossover design study where 4 standard cognitive outcome measures are administered at Visits 2 (Day 30 7) and 3 (Day 90 7), either remotely or during an in-person visit. REINVENT is a non-interventional, multi-center, research network-based cross-over study evaluating the potential utility of a telehealth platform in improving the efficiency of clinical trials. The study aims to enroll 30 subjects from primary care practices coordinated through a single main study site. Potential subjects will be screened and randomized (1:1) at Visit 1 into a 2-period crossover design study where 4 standard cognitive outcome measures are administered at Visits 2 (Day 30 7) and 3 (Day 90 7), either remotely or during an in-person visit.

>>NCT00403520
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that donepezil slows the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain to measure the volume of the hippocampus in patients with pre-dementia Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that donepezil slows the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain to measure the volume of the hippocampus in patients with pre-dementia Alzheimer's disease.

>>NCT02580305
This is a phase 2a, proof-of-concept, 26-week, double-blind, multicenter, randomized, parallel group, placebo-controlled study to compare the efficacy and safety of treatment with SUVN-502 to placebo treatment in subjects with moderate Alzheimer's disease receiving stable doses of donepezil HCl and memantine HCl. This is a phase 2a, proof-of-concept, 26-week, double-blind, multicenter, randomized, parallel group, placebo-controlled study to compare the efficacy and safety of treatment with SUVN-502 to placebo treatment in subjects with moderate Alzheimer's disease receiving stable doses of donepezil HCl and memantine HCl.

>>NCT01901263
Cognitive and behavioral units (CBUs) have been created between 2008 and 2012 French National Alzheimer plan for the management of behavior problems of patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease or other related disorders and necessitating hospitalisation. This Alzheimer plan is promoting the evaluation of these units through the observation of the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) evolution. As these units are new, it appears important to assess their long-term impact on patients care. Cognitive and behavioral units (CBUs) have been created between 2008 and 2012 French National Alzheimer plan for the management of behavior problems of patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease or other related disorders and necessitating hospitalisation. This Alzheimer plan is promoting the evaluation of these units through the observation of the behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) evolution. As these units are new, it appears important to assess their long-term impact on patients care.

>>NCT00456417
The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I MNI-187 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect -amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects. The underlying goal of this study is to assess 123-I MNI-187 SPECT imaging as a tool to detect -amyloid deposition in the brain of AD research participants and age- and gender-matched healthy subjects.

>>NCT01081743
Context: The French Alzheimer plan 2008-2012 includes the implementation of "disease managers" or social workers, from the onset of the disease, for every patient with a diagnosis of Alzheimer disease or associated disorder. However, previous trials evaluating the efficacy of a systematic intervention for each case from the onset of the disease, including non complex cases, have shown little evidence.
 Objective: To evaluate the efficacy of a social worker to prevent behavioural problem for patient with a new diagnosis of Alzheimer disease or associated disorder.
 Design and setting: Multicentric cluster randomized control trial. Patients from several memory consultations and specialists (neurologist, psychiatrist or geriatrician) in France are included.
 Intervention: In addition to usual care, patients in the intervention group have systematic home visits from a social worker and regular follow-ups by phone over a one-year period. This social worker informs the patient and caregiver, evaluates the needs, gives advices to prevent complications and is a link between the patient and the memory consultation or the specialist. Patient in the control group have absolutely no intervention and are followed-up as usually. In order to not modify the usual care, they have no information on their participation in this trial before the one-year evaluation.
 Main outcome measure: NeuroPsychiatric Inventory (NPI) administrated at one year, which evaluates frequency, severity and repercussion of several behavioural problems. Secondary outcomes included disability, cognition, depression, health, quality of life, institutionalization and resource use.

